Hormuz Shock "Manifesting Itself In
Cracks, Not Crude," Jefferies Says
Brent crude futures held near recent highs of $90 a barrel before fading to around $87 early
Thursday morning, as traders awaited progress toward reopening the Strait of Hormuz. Stalled
US-Iran negotiations and tightening global fuel supplies continued to support prices and
concern some top energy experts, who warn of a looming supply shock. 
US-Iran talks remain deadlocked to end the week as the Trump administration maintains its
blockade of Iranian ports and Tehran demands compensation for war-related damage.
Pakistan, which has served as a mediator, said the broader peace talks had stalled.
Late Wednesday, President Trump wrote in a Truth Social post that the USA has "total
control" over the Strait of Hormuz and "I think we will keep it." It's also yet more
confirmation that he's opting for economic siege warfare while the US military campaign is on
hold. 
Polymarket odds for "US-Iran 60-day negotiation period extended?" currently stand at around
25%, down from 80% one week ago.
So far, Brent crude is headed for a weekly advance of nearly 5% as a near-term resolution to
the US-Iran conflict remains murky and Ukrainian and Russian attacks on energy
infrastructure tighten oil and, more critically, diesel markets.
Last week, our note titled "Winter Is Coming" for Europe outlined how the energy-stricken
continent faces a twin diesel and natural gas crunch.
Samantha Dart, co-head of global commodities research at Goldman Sachs, told Bloomberg
TV early last week that the global diesel-supply crunch is "what keeps her up at night."
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/hormuz-shock-manifesting-itself-cracks-not-crude-jefferies-says 8/13/26, 9:03 AM
Page 1 of 4
Saxo Markets strategist Charu Chanana said volatility will remain elevated until Hormuz
reopens and the outlook for production becomes clearer.
Making matters worse, the International Energy Agency released a report on Wednesday that
forecast a 1.8 million-barrel-a-day deficit this quarter, more than double its previous estimate.
The agency also warned that elevated prices are beginning to crush demand and projected the
widest annual supply shortfall in five years.
Offsetting higher prices was bearish US inventory data showing that crude stockpiles surged
by 17.4 million barrels last week, the largest increase since January 2023, as exports
weakened and imports from Saudi Arabia and Venezuela increased.
Jefferies analyst Sam Burwell, who specializes in oil, gas and energy infrastructure equities,
wrote in a note Wednesday that showed oil-market extremes in three charts:
Three Pictures Worth 1,900 Characters - Oil Market Extremes
We return from an earnings hiatus (and step outside Canada) to show some current extremes
in global oil markets. Chinese crude imports bounced a bit in July but remain far below the
prior run rate. While crude is well off its highs and never made a historic spike, diesel cracks
are far above prior all-time highs (gasoline is strong, too). China remains the wild card, but
we think this setup is constructive for crude (and, by extension, the Canadian energy
complex).
Chart #1 shows monthly Chinese crude imports. The massive ~5 mmbpd downshift in imports
following the Hormuz closure demonstrated the extent of China's demand elasticity. July did
see a ~1 mmbpd m/m increase from June's low. With somewhat higher crude prices and fewer
vessels moving through Hormuz more recently, we'll see what August and beyond bring.
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/hormuz-shock-manifesting-itself-cracks-not-crude-jefferies-says 8/13/26, 9:03 AM
Page 2 of 4
However, we note that a return to the ~11 mmbpd five-year average would imply ~3 mmbpd of
incremental demand.
Chart #3 shows that while diesel and gasoline prices are, of course, elevated, they are much
closer to, or within, prior historical highs. Notably, clean-product prices in 2008 were similar
to today's on a nominal basis (and therefore higher in real terms).
What this all shows is that global oil-market tightness is manifesting itself in cracks, not
crude, at least for now. Wide cracks suggest refining runs should remain strong, however,
which is positive for crude. While US refinery utilization dipped w/w, it remains near 20-year
seasonal highs.
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/hormuz-shock-manifesting-itself-cracks-not-crude-jefferies-says 8/13/26, 9:03 AM
Page 3 of 4
China is the crude-demand wild card, but with such wide cracks, one wonders how long it will
be before the Chinese begin importing more crude to export more refined products (or simply
replenish their own product/petchem stocks). Imports in the coming months will be telling as
to how elastic China's buying remains.
In short, unless the Strait of Hormuz reopens soon and fuel supplies recover meaningfully, the
focus will remain on refined-product markets, particularly diesel. The critical industrial fuel is
being squeezed globally, and as Bank of America's commodities team warned, "the diesel
market appears poised to stay tight, volatile, and expensive well into next year."
Professional subscribers can read a lot more energy content at our new Marketdesk.ai portal. 
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/hormuz-shock-manifesting-itself-cracks-not-crude-jefferies-says 8/13/26, 9:03 AM
Page 4 of 4