Fire Erupts At Saudi Aramco's Jazan
Refinery As Iran-Backed Houthis Claim
Drone Strike
Yemen's Iran-backed Houthis claimed responsibility for a drone attack on Saudi Aramco's $21
billion Jazan refinery, located on Saudi Arabia's southwestern Red Sea coast, roughly 44 miles
from the Yemeni border. The facility is strategically important because it allows Aramco to
export refined products through the Red Sea without transiting the Strait of Hormuz. The
attack also signals the growing vulnerability of Saudi energy assets in the region, where
Houthi forces have repeatedly targeted them in recent weeks.
A Bloomberg report cites Saudi Arabia's Energy Ministry, which said a fire broke out early
Sunday at the 400,000-barrel-a-day Jazan refinery before being extinguished.
The outlet continued:
No injuries were reported, the ministry said in a post on X, without providing
details on the cause of the fire. Authorities "are completing necessary procedures
to deal with the incident," it said. Yemen's Houthi rebel group subsequently
claimed the attack, the group's military spokesperson said in a post, also on X.
Ariel Oseran of i24NEWS English reports: 
The Houthis attacked the port of Mocha in western Yemen, causing several
explosions and a large pillar of smoke. Earlier, the Houthis said they attacked a
Saudi Aramco oil facility in Jazan.
The Houthis attacked the port of Mocha in western Yemen, causing several
explosions and a large pillar of smoke. Earlier, the Houthis said they attacked a
Saudi Aramco oil facility in Jazan. pic.twitter.com/oNm7ZLvami
— Ariel Oseran أوسيران أريئل (@ariel_oseran) August 9, 2026
The Jazan incident comes as U.S. and Iran are going back and forth in an effort to ink a peace
deal to reopen the Strait of Hormuz. 
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/fire-erupts-saudi-aramcos-jazan-refinery-iran-backed-houthis-claim-drone-strike
8/9/26, 7:50 AM
Page 1 of 4

U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent appears to back the Iran-Oman deal to open the critical
maritime chokepoint, with President Trump and his officials remaining surprisingly quiet even
as it has emerged that the deal outline is wholly favorable to Tehran's conditions.
Any agreement to reopen the narrow waterway will require approval from Iran's Supreme
Leader Mojtaba Khamenei, potentially delaying an announcement as officials struggle to
reach him, according to Bloomberg.
Iran Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei says he met with President Masoud
Pezeshkian to discuss economic conditions and the war. Maybe it’s random, but
the first item mentioned in the read out is “the provision of the people's livelihood
needs.”
The meeting follows significant…
— Javier Blas (@JavierBlas) August 9, 2026
"The opening of the Strait is subject to other conditions, including the compensation for the
US's violations of the Islamabad Agreement," Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said
on Saturday. He was referring to the now-collapsed memorandum of understanding signed in
June.
Catch up with Saturday's US-Iran news flow:
Iran Insists U.S. Must Meet Stringent List Of Demands Before Hormuz Opens
Iran's Mehr Releases Video Of Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei For 'First Time' -
Except It's Old
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/fire-erupts-saudi-aramcos-jazan-refinery-iran-backed-houthis-claim-drone-strike
8/9/26, 7:50 AM
Page 2 of 4

Sunday morning data from Bloomberg show vessel crossings through the Hormuz chokepoint
are still at ultra-low levels.
Brent crude futures closed Friday at $83.55 a barrel, bouncing off the $80 level.
Latest US-Iran Headlines (courtesy of Bloomberg): 
Hormuz Deal Status
Iran says it is "very close" to a deal with Oman on a temporary maritime transit route
through the Strait of Hormuz, but any agreement would not immediately reopen the
waterway.
Iran's conditions for reopening the strait include compensation for U.S. violations of the
Islamabad Agreement, lifting sanctions, and billions of dollars in war damages,
according to U.S. officials.
Iran is also reportedly demanding that U.S. Navy warships be barred from passing
through the Strait of Hormuz as part of any reopening agreement, reflecting the
influence of IRGC hardliners.
Oman has called for a halt to attacks on ships in the strait, saying they violate
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/fire-erupts-saudi-aramcos-jazan-refinery-iran-backed-houthis-claim-drone-strike
8/9/26, 7:50 AM
Page 3 of 4

sovereignty, while describing negotiations as progressing in a "positive and constructive
atmosphere."
Iran-US Talks
Iranian Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said on Sunday that direct talks with the U.S.
are currently impossible, citing U.S. violations of the June Memorandum of
Understanding.
Iran says it is currently only exchanging messages with the U.S. through intermediaries,
with some countries trying to reestablish grounds for negotiations.
Trump had been laying the groundwork to declare victory if Iran fully reopened the
strait, even floating the idea of walking away without a nuclear deal, but Iran's
escalating demands have complicated that objective, according to U.S. officials.
Vice President JD Vance said the U.S. is "in the middle of the game" with Iran, using
diplomatic, economic, and military tools, and expressed confidence in reaching a good
outcome.
Iran's Politics
Supreme Leader Mojtaba Khamenei met with President Pezeshkian on Sunday for
"detailed discussions" covering livelihoods, war conditions, military developments, and
economic interactions. Khamenei has not been seen in public since the war began.
Mohsen Rezaee, a military adviser to Khamenei and former IRGC commander, has been
appointed as Khamenei's representative on Iran's Supreme National Security Council,
according to TSNA.
Hardline factions within Iran, including IRGC leaders and clerics, are reportedly
pushing to keep Iran at war and block peace talks with the U.S.
https://www.zerohedge.com/energy/fire-erupts-saudi-aramcos-jazan-refinery-iran-backed-houthis-claim-drone-strike
8/9/26, 7:50 AM
Page 4 of 4
