Nvidia Set To Reveal Record $500 Billion Off-Balance Sheet
SPV Deal To Fund The World's Biggest Circle Jerk: Report
BY TYLER DURDEN
MONDAY, AUG 10, 2026 - 11:52 AM
Learn more
In what is shaping up as a record-breaking, oﬀ-balance sheet SPV deal, one which will
send CDS and credit yields surging far beyond where the recent explosion in AI debt has
already pushed them, and as shown in the chart below, it's pretty, pretty far...
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 1 of 8

... the FT reports that Nvidia - unable to generate fund the old-fashioned way by earnings
- is working with the world’s largest ﬁnancial groups are to assemble a $500bn
funding package for AI infrastructure development, in what will be the biggest AI
lending eﬀorts to date of any kind.
A consortium of groups including private credit (and equity) giants Apollo, Blackstone,
BlackRock, Brookﬁeld, Goldman and KKR is entering a partnership with Nvidia to invest in
the AI build-out, the FT cited six people briefed on the talks.
Learn more
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 2 of 8

The "partnership" as the FT calls it as it sounds a bit better than "hail-may, oﬀ-balance
sheet arrangement" underscores Nvidia’s increasingly desperate eﬀorts to raise capital for
itself and its clients (because everyone now admits that circular ﬁnancing is absolutely
critical to keeping the AI bubble going) to continue assembling the chips, power
production and data centers at the heart of the AI boom.
The $5.25tn company, whose GPUs underpin most of the leading US AI models available
today, has positioned itself at the center of the AI boom, providing chips, infrastructure
and software to a wide array of partners developing the technology.
More ominously, as it brings back fresh memories of the vendor ﬁnancing that was in part
responsible for the collapse of the dot com bubble, the chipmaker traditionally provides
ﬁnancial backing to help its AI partners raise debt in capital markets, which then
helps boost Nvidia’s own revenue, in what has become AI's trademark circle jerk
deal.
As we have discussed here for the past year, the circular nature of such transactions has
raised concerns about concentrated risks in the sector, and it's why NVDA stock slumped
immediately after the FT news broke, sliding as much as 2% on the FT report and wiping
out more than $70bn in market capitalisation.
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 3 of 8

Separately, Nvidia was in talks to provide a massive guarantee for a 10-gigawatt data
centre project in Ohio leased to OpenAI, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The deal shows how Nvidia is building relationships with the giants of the private capital
industry, which are collectively preparing to invest trillions of dollars of their insurance,
retail and institutional investor assets into AI infrastructure. 
In recent years, private capital groups such as Apollo and Blackstone have structured oﬀ-
balance sheet SPV, pardon, AI infrastructure deals to assist companies like Anthropic
ﬁnance their heavy spending on chips and data centers. We discussed this extensively
two months ago  in "The $1.8 Trillion Oﬀ-Balance Sheet Time Bomb At The Heart Of The
AI Supercycle", a topic which the FT also caught up with today. 
Home Heating Upgrade
Upgrade from gas heat
and get $1,500 back
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 4 of 8

Robin Wigglesworth
@RobinWigg · Follow
The US hyperscalers have now signed up for about 
$1 trillion of lease commitments that don't appear 
in their financial data (and are on the hook for 
another $1 trillion of future purchase 
commitments). ft.com/content/a0a07c…
5:46 AM · Aug 10, 2026
248
Reply
Copy link
Read 7 replies
Nvidia, whose market cap has grown 15x since the launch of the ﬁrst chatGPT in
November 2022, is not the only beneﬁciary of the gargantuan circle-jerk deals that deﬁne
the AI bubble: the biggest cloud-computing companies, including Meta, Oracle, Microsoft,
Alphabet and Amazon, have also dramatically increased their spending on AI
infrastructure as they look to win the race to dominate the emerging technology. Morgan
Stanley projects so-called hyperscalers will spend $3.5tn between 2026 and 2028.
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 5 of 8

That need for capital has forced technology groups to tap every source of cash they can
ﬁnd, including public equity, investment-grade and high-yield bonds, securitised debt,
private credit and project ﬁnance markets.
“[The] sheer size of the AI infrastructure build-out is unprecedented,” Jim Zelter, president
of Apollo, said on an earnings call earlier this month. “More than $8tn of capital is
expected to be invested, a staggering sum. We see an enormous opportunity for private
capital to ﬁnance a portion of this along with public capital.”
While all that is great, it appears nobody has done the math on what happens if
traditional, expensive frontier models lose to vastly cheaper, open-weight/source models.
One thing is certain: the free cash ﬂow hockeystick projected in the chart below will never,
ever happen should open-weight models win the arms race. 
Home Heating Upgrade
Upgrade from gas heat
and get $1,500 back
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 6 of 8

zerohedge
@zerohedge · Follow
So, uh, guys we still hockeystick FCF with 
everyone moving to open models?
zerohedge
@zerohedge
"You are here" - only MSFT has positive free cash flow now
8:39 AM · Aug 10, 2026
182
Reply
Copy link
Read 30 replies
And now we sit back and wait to see just how far into the stratosphere this record SPV
deal will send hyperscaler CDS and bond spreads. 
Home Heating Upgrade
Upgrade from gas heat and get $1,500 back
Washington Energy
Open
https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 7 of 8

DISCRIMINATION NOTICE
PRIVACY POLICY
DISCLOSURE
DISCLAIMER
PRIVACY AND COOKIE SETTINGS
ADVERTISE WITH ZEROHEDGE
COPYRIGHT ©2009-2026 ZEROHEDGE.COM/ABC MEDIA, LTD
3,245
18
WANT TO KNOW MORE?
Intel Selling $15 Billion In Stock To Fund AI Boom
If They Were Human, They'd Be Arrested. Experts Respond To Rogue AI Breaches
'Effectively No Panic At All' But Goldman Flows Guru Sees Investor's Tech Skepticism
Shifting Dramatically
Home Heating Upgrade
Upgrade from gas heat and get $1,500 back
Washington Energy
Open

https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/nvidia-set-reveal-recordlion-balance-sheet-spv-deal-fund-worlds-biggest-circle-jerk
8/10/26, 12:26 PM
Page 8 of 8
