PUB: None
LD: 2026-10-01T20:30:00-0400
The $40 Billion Minerals Gamble: Can Trump Break China's Chokehold Before The West's Rearmament Hits A Wall? | ZeroHedge
ZeroHedge Reads
Alt-Market
AntiWar.com
Bitcoin Magazine
Bombthrower
BULLIONSTAR
Capitalist Exploits
Christophe Barraud
Dollar Collapse
Dr. Housing Bubble
Financial Revolutionist
ForexLive
Forum Geopolitica
Gains Pains & Capital
Gefira
GMG Research
Gold Core
Implode-Explode
Insider Paper
Libertarian Institute
Liberty Blitzkrieg
Max Keiser
Mises Institute
Mish Talk
Monetary Metals
Newsquawk
Of Two Minds
Oil Price
Open The Books
Peter Schiff
Portfolio Armor
QTR’s Fringe Finance
Safehaven
Slope of Hope
SpotGamma
TF Metals Report
The Automatic Earth
The Burning Platform
The Economic Populist
Themis Trading
Thoughtful Money
Value Walk
Visual Combat Banzai7
Wolf Street
Expand
The Trump administration has committed billions of dollars to rebuild conflict-free critical materials supply chains outside China. The question remains whether these supply chains will be up and running in time for the West's rearmament cycle, which desperately needs missiles, bombs, drones, fighter jets, submarines, and even night-vision equipment.
Bloomberg Intelligence analysts published a note today titled "Defense-Critical Mineral Capital Moves Downstream," analyzing whether more than $40 billion in announced support will translate into reliable near-term supplies and improve defense readiness.
"Execution, not government support alone, will determine if US critical-minerals policy translates into durable revenue and stronger defense readiness," the analysts wrote.
They continued, "Policy is moving beyond grants toward equity, price floors, loans, offtake and stockpiles designed to preserve capacity through commodity cycles."
Adding, "MP Materials and ATALCO offer the clearest near-term links to magnets and gallium, while IperionX and Perpetua provide targeted titanium and antimony exposure. Defense-grade output, customer qualification and contracted volume still need to follow announced capacity."
Beyond the mining aspect of rejiggering critical materials supply chains, refining and downstream production remain critically important, including heavy-rare-earth separation, manufacturing yields, customer qualification, and reliable deliveries.
These high-grade critical materials are essential for missiles, drones, satellites, and undersea platforms. The F-35 alone requires more than 900 pounds of rare-earth materials, the analysts noted.
Breaking China's "quasi-monopolistic position" in critical materials is unlikely to be a this-decade story. Christian Keller, Barclays' global head of economics research, recently pointed out that mining and refining of these critical materials will persist through 2030. 
Stifel aerospace and defense analyst Jonathan Siegmann wrote in a note last week that investors want to "own the bottlenecks" in the critical materials space, mainly the producers that can deliver today. 
Siegmann's most important chart in the report was the near-depletion of US tungsten reserves. 
Adrien Rabier, Bernstein's equity analyst covering European aerospace and defense, put a timeline on the EU's defense rearmament supercycle, which is already ramping up and will last through 2030.
Bloomberg Intelligence analysts added that the Trump administration's Project Vault, intended to rebuild the nation's critical materials stockpiles, provides another buffer by financing inventories for civilian and dual-use manufacturers can draw down and replenish. It complements the National Defense Stockpile but does not replace its emergency role or guarantee that material will be available in military-qualified form.
The only problem is that new mining projects take years to commission, while refining supply chains also take time to come online, as this shortage of critical materials collides with a rearmament supercycle in the West. As for tungsten, Jefferies, Goldman, and Stifel favor this miner, which is set to become the West's largest ex-China supplier. 
Sign Up For ZH Premium
Today's Top Stories
Contact Information+
Assistance and Requests: Contact Us
Tips: tips@zerohedge.com
General: info@zerohedge.com
Legal: legal@zerohedge.com
Advertising: Contact Us
Abuse/Complaints: abuse@zerohedge.com
Suggested Reading+
Make sure to read our "How To [Read/Tip Off] Zero Hedge Without Attracting The
                      Interest Of [Human Resources/The Treasury/Black
                      Helicopters]" Guide
It would be very wise of you to study our privacy policyand our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure.Here's our Cookie Policy. 
How to report offensive comments
Notice on Racial Discrimination. 
