# ZH afternoon scan, fetched 2026-10-07 ~3:00pm PT (iPhone UA; premium = opener only)

===== zerohedge.com/asymmetry-has-shifted-goldman-vol-trader-steps-ai-train-hedge-funds-most-crowded-mag-7
Five weeks ago, the pitch from Goldman's derivatives desk was simple: nobody owns AI, the options are cheap, buy it. It worked. The problem with a trade that works is that eventually everybody owns it. That, in one line, is the message of the latest note from Goldman vol trader Shawn Tuteja, titled with characteristic sell-side understatement " a bit less clear " ( available to pro subs ). Readers will recall that at the end of August, when hedge funds were nursing the two worst months on record for Goldman's TMT momentum pair, Tuteja said the "risk-reward to owning upside" was "extremely compelling" (Aug 31) and recommended buying calls on Goldman's AI leaders basket. With the S&P closing Tuesday at a record 7,818.93 and the Nasdaq 100 at a record 31,224, he is now taking the other side of his own call: S&P +1.3%, S&P Ex-AI -5.2%: One Index, Two Markets

===== zerohedge.com/european-banks-tumble-french-bond-crash-reactivates-doom-loop
The sellside (especially those employed by European banks) spent much of yesterday scrambling to convince markets and bond traders, not to read too much into the recent meltdown in French bonds, claiming that i) it was due to a pile up of shorts and not due to fundamental reasons and the selling would therefore reverse, and ii) it would not spill over into the domestic banking sector, avoiding a relapse of Europe's scary "doom loop." To be sure, French OATs did bounce a bit on Tuesday after Marine Le Pen and Jordan Bardella unveiled a shadow budget aiming to cut spending by more than €140 billion by 2032, and with lower oil and a broader risk bid lending a hand, which collapsed 10Y OAT-Bund spread collapsed 12bps to 125bps.

===== zerohedge.com/fomc-minutes-show-all-19-fed-officials-supported-rate-hike-most-assess-another-hike-year
The September FOMC minutes struck a distinctly hawkish tone, as all 19 Fed officials backed a rate hike in September, with many supporting the move to protect against the risk of intensifying inflation pressures. A separate group of officials said higher rates were necessary based on their outlook for the economy, signaling greater concern for elevated inflation, according to minutes of the Sept. 16 FOMC meeting released Wednesday . The Committee unanimously raised the fed funds rate 25bp to 3.75%-4.00% and signaled that further tightening is likely by year-end. “Most participants assessed that another increase in the target range for the federal funds rate would likely be appropriate by year end,” the minutes said, and also said that “Several participants commented that the underlying momentum in the economy appeared to have increased." Policymakers remain concerned that inflation is proving sticky. August headline PCE inflation was estimated at 3.8% and core PCE at 3.4%, with higher energy costs, geopolitical tensions, and AI-related investment contributing to price pressures. Participants generally viewed inflation risks as skewed to the upside. The economy continues to show resilience. GDP growth remained solid, consumer spending held up, and business investment was supported by the ongoing AI buildout. Labor market conditions were viewed as close to full employment, with unemployment at 4.1%. Several participants noted that AI is boosting both investment and productivity prospects but could also contribute to inflation through stronger demand, rising input costs, and increased financing needs . Market participants likewise cited AI-related borrowing as a factor pushing Treasury yields higher. Overall, the Committee judged that stronger growth, elevated energy prices, and persistent inflation warranted a more restrictive policy stance, with most members expecting another rate increase before year-end. Here are the key highlights from the Fed minutes: Participants generally emphasized inflation remained elevated while the job market appeared near full employment. Participants offered a range of views for why they supported a rate increase. Participants generally saw inflation risks skewed to the upside, with some seeing those risks becoming more skewed in recent months. Almost all participants saw inflation risks tilted to the upside, while job market risks were broadly balanced. Some participants saw AI buildout possibly causing aggregate demand to outpace supply over the medium term, putting upward pressure on inflation. The staff economic outlook was stronger than the one prepared for the July meeting. Many participants noted that despite the recent climb in long-term Treasury yields, financial conditions appeared supportive of economic growth. A few participants observed that the Treasury market had been functioning smoothly, but noted the importance of planning for market stress. Changes in real rates contributed to most of the net increase in longer-maturity Treasury yields. Nominal yields increased around 35 basis points across the 2- to 10-year segment of the yield curve. Part of the increase reflected the higher expected path of monetary policy and the strength of economic data. Market commentary pointed to geopolitical developments, uncertainty related to the US Treasury's announcement and implementation of the buyback program, and competition for capital from heavy private debt issuance to finance the development of AI infrastructure as also contributing to higher term premiums and Treasury yields The FOMC was also increasingly vocal on the inflationary impacts of AI: "Several participants observed that the rate of price increases in the core goods category also remained elevated, as effects of the AI buildout appeared to increase while the effects of tariff increases waned" "Some participants commented that increased energy prices and the ongoing AI buildout were contributing to cost pressures faced by businesses, including higher costs for transportation and input materials." "Some participants commented that the AI buildout could cause aggregate demand to outpace aggregate supply over the medium term, putting upward pressure on inflation." "Some participants observed that strong demand for skilled workers in sectors related to the ongoing AI buildout had been driving strong wage gains for these workers" "Participants noted that the ongoing AI buildout was boosting business investment. Several participants commented that the scale and pace of the AI buildout had continued to surprise to the upside" The record also revealed a discussion about financial conditions. Many officials commented that despite the recent rise in longer-term Treasury yields, “financial conditions appeared to be supportive of economic growth, with equity prices having risen substantially this year and spreads on corporate bonds having remained narrow.” Some officials, including three who voted against the FOMC decision to hold steady in July, could dissent again in favor of another increase if the majority votes to leave rates unchanged at the October meeting. “Several participants stated that they viewed the current policy rate as not restrictive or only mildly restrictive,” the minutes Chairman Kevin Warsh told reporters following the Sept. 16 decision the move was aimed at removing a “dose of accommodation” as inflation remained stubbornly high. His comments fueled market bets for another increase in October. The Fed also said that the joint U.S.–Japan intervention to support the yen in late July also directly contributed to dollar depreciation, given the yen's considerable weight in currency indexes. The manager noted that the Desk, acting purely as fiscal agent for the U.S. Treasury, intervened in the currency market using U.S. Treasury funds; the System Open Market Account portfolio was not involved. The Fed's rate hike prompted criticism from President Trump, who blamed the rate increase on Warsh’s colleagues, whom he claimed were being “very political.” Since the meeting, however, a series of comments from key Fed officials have indicated the central bank may be in no rush to raise rates again. Fed Vice Chair Philip Jefferson and New York Fed President John Williams said in separate speeches last week they believed the central bank has time to assess the economy before considering another rate increase. Investors promptly reeled in their expectations for a rate hike this month. Investors are currently pricing in a roughly 20% chance of another quarter-point hike at the Fed’s Oct. 27-28 meeting, down from around 70% in the days following the September decision, based on federal funds futures. Yields on two-year Treasuries, seen as the most sensitive to Fed policy, dropped more than 10 basis points in the past week to near 4.8%. Bloomberg notes that last week’s remarks by Williams and Jefferson don’t mean the Fed won’t adjust policy any further. Officials continue to warn that inflation is too high. The CPI report due Oct. 14 might yet revive calls for a near-term hike. 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"Hawkish FOMC Minutes Show All 19 Fed Officials Supported Rate Hike, \"Most\" Assess Another Hike \"By Year End Is Appropriate\"","image":["https://cms.zerohedge.com/s3/files/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/warsh%20teaser%203.jpg?itok=Lf2DF2zO"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T14:14:37-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories

===== zerohedge.com/iraq-formally-requests-syria-act-hormuz-bypass-route-its-crude
Syria's geography has long given the country huge economic opportunities as a major energy transfer hub connecting Middle East states to the Mediterranean. But as the last decade plus of proxy war which resulted in the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad demonstrated, Syria has also long been target of foreign machinations bent on seeing a puppet state installed in Damascus . The US-Gulf allies broadly waged war against the so-called 'Shia crescent' represented in the old Baghdad-Damascus-Hezbollah axis. Henry Kissinger famously stated of its opportunity-rich geography, "you can't make war in the Middle East without Egypt and you can't make peace without Syria." The historiographical term Pax Syriana also captures this concept: as goes Syria, so goes the whole region . Prior file image: Long convoys of Iraqi diesel-laden tanker trucks line up along the Tartus-Baniyas highway, via AFP. Of course, the external powers which have long sought to dominate the region both politically and on the energy front know this full well, which makes it all the more shameful and ironic that mainstream media and government officials had long derided as 'conspiracy theorists' anyone who connected a 'pipeline wars' theme with Washington's covert war on Syria . Widespread derision was the reaction of MSM punditry when back in 2016 Robert F. Kennedy Jr. penned the following excellent lengthy investigation: Why the Arabs Don’t Want Us in Syria They don’t hate ‘our freedoms.’ They hate that we’ve betrayed our ideals in their own countries—for oil Fast-forward to 2026, amid Trump's Iran war and the Strait of Hormuz crisis, and another conspiracy theory becomes conspiracy fact (as we've been documenting of the great crude transit 'rewiring' efforts to erode Iran's leverage over the Hormuz passage). On Wednesday, cue a new Bloomberg headline: Syria Set to Emerge as Hormuz-Bypass Option for Iraq's Crude Oil . The deserts of Western Iraq and Eastern Syria are set to look like a scene out of Max Max, apparently. "Syria is set to provide a route for Iraqi crude exports to avoid the hazardous Strait of Hormuz, with a stream of trucks being lined up to haul oil overland to a port on the Mediterranean Sea," Bloomberg writes. "The Iraqi government asked Syria to help with the export of crude in addition to existing flows of fuel oil , Yousef Qiblawy, chief executive officer of the state-owned Syrian Petroleum Co., said in an interview with Bloomberg News," the report continues. To some degree, this overland route was already being 'tested' during the latter years of the Syrian proxy war , when US forces occupied Syria's oil and gas fields of Deir Ezzor and Al-Hasaka regions. Reviving land corridors from Iraq to the Mediterranean : Hormuz disruption revives land corridors from Iraq to the Mediterranean The Strait of Hormuz handles a massive slice of the world's oil and gas — and with that route under threat, the region is dusting off old alternatives. One proposal gaining attention: a land corridor linking Iraqi oil fields to the Mediterranean via western Iraq and Syria. Iraq is already weighing this against the Turkish Ceyhan route and a possible path through Jordan. Syria, for its part, could reclaim its historic role as a bridge between Iraq and the Mediterranean Sea. Iraqi fuel oil and other petroleum products are reportedly already moving by truck through Syria to Mediterranean ports, then on to Asia and Europe — no Hormuz involved. https://t.co/AWbFJOGcwC — Sputnik (@SputnikInt) September 27, 2026 They had run tanker trucks in the other direction - from Syria into Iraq, siphoning off Syrian oil and its sovereign resources , after President Trump during his first term hailed that the Pentagon would 'secure the oil'. Read our: Mystery Explosions: Syria's Recovering Gas Network Keeps Getting Sabotaged As for actual pipeline routes from Iraq to the Mediterranean via Syria being revived, major hurdles remain and its not just the gargantuan cost of reviving the derelict hardware - but there's an obvious security problem in a country that's seen mysterious armed groups constantly bomb Syrian energy infrastructure - both during the Assad years and now under Jolani. 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"Iraq Formally Requests Syria Act As 'Hormuz Bypass' Route For Its Crude","image":["https://cms.zerohedge.com/s3/files/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/overlandtrucks.jpg?itok=mQnbn78K"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T14:35:00-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories

===== zerohedge.com/pezeshkian-calls-iranians-ration-electricity-stand-us-negotiations-stalemated
Update(1615ET) : The Atlantic is reporting Wednesday afternoon that the Pentagon is preparing strike options for the Commander-in-Chief to consider, and that Trump may actually pull the trigger before the midterm elections - though the report emphasizes that the decision is still being debated : After months of on-again, off-again fighting, the United States hasn’t struck Iran in several weeks. The stretch of relative tranquility is coinciding with the final phase of the midterm-election campaign, and the assumption has been that President Trump will want to keep it going through November 3 so as not to remind voters of an unpopular war that is dragging Republican candidates down nationwide. But that may not be what happens. The White House has asked the Pentagon to develop strike options against Iranian targets that could be exercised ahead of the midterms, according to two administration officials . The planning underscores just how much the president wants to reduce gas prices and demonstrate progress in the conflict before the vote, administration officials told us. And yet a renewed outbreak of direct bombing would likely actually serve to do the opposite, given oil prices have tended to shoot up on headlines of major direct escalation. Reports out of Iran confirmed earlier Wednesday that negotiations are 'stalemated' - also as the Iranians have ramped up targeting tankers with drones in the Strait of Hormuz over the last week. One peculiar and notable line from The Atlantic report is that Trump and the Republicans are looking for "some sort of victory" in a war that they promised would be swift and decisive, but instead has drifted into a seven-month quagmire: The plans are being developed by U.S. Central Command, which is coordinating the war effort, a U.S. official told us. Even the plans’ advocates acknowledge that limited strikes would not, by themselves, bring Iran to the negotiating table, restore safe travel through the Strait of Hormuz, or lower gas prices before Election Day. But those in favor believe that further action after months of uneasy peace could allow Trump to demonstrate strength and potentially declare some sort of victory , giving Republicans much-needed momentum heading into the election. Tehran has constantly signaled its military is at the 'ready' and that it is continuing to build up its ballistic missile arsenal, even as its exports have dropped dramatically due to the US naval blockade. Meanwhile... UKMTO WARNING 158-26 Click here to view the full product⤵️ https://t.co/eljQkk03bG #MaritimeSecurity #MarSec https://t.co/4u3X6rEHaB — UKMTO Operations Centre (@UK_MTO) October 7, 2026 Some of the latest out of state IRNA : Iran's considerations and conditions for ending the war on all fronts and restoring security to the Persian Gulf region and the Strait have been clearly and firmly explained, and the necessary response to the other side's proposals will be provided through mediators. "Iran will continue its efforts to strengthen trust and interaction between regional countries." The agreement between Iran and Oman on the safe routes of Hormuz will soon be reflected in international references. * * * Saudi Arabian state-owned outlet Al Hadath is reporting what many might consider obvious: Stalemate in mediation efforts between Washington and Tehran , the source reports Wednesday. US officials are continuing to tell Tehran that there will be "no progress" in negotiations until there's progress on the nuclear file and that Hormuz is no longer a priority after Iran "lost control of it" . via AFP And yet, there's been possibly a dozen or more Iranian drone attacks on foreign vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz in the last eight days . All of this comes as President Masoud Pezeshkian has urged the Iranian public to 'stand up' against the US and West , as Washington's sweeping sanctions as well as US naval blockade actions against Iranian ports continue to bite. "We must not allow the production cycle to be damaged. We will reduce the consumption of electricity, gas, gasoline, water and other energy sectors ," he said to semi-official Fars news agency. "The condition for resistance and standing up to the West is for everyone to endure hardship ," Pezeshkian added, saying that " if necessary, cultural and sport complexes will be closed in Iran to provide electricity and energy needed for industrial production " - as the US blockade hammers Iran’s economy. The rial has cratered, and the fallout has begun to severely impact neighboring Iraq and its Tehran-aligned economy and government, as we previously detailed . Fars also quoted Pezeshkian as saying Wednesday, "Iran is fully prepared to reach a balanced and fair agreement that ensures lasting peace and security in the region." "Our red line is the national interests and rights of the Iranian people. If the United States adheres to international legal frameworks, reaching an agreement is not out of reach ," he added. There's also this admission (but which could also be interpreted as pushback) from Iranian state media, in the face of Scott Bessent's recent assertions that Iran's crude exports have fallen to near 'Zero' : Iranian media is reporting a 60 percent decrease in oil passing through the Strait of Hormuz, saying that the flow of crude oil has faced a significant drop in the last two days, reaching around 3.8 million barrels per day. The weekly average of oil passing through the Strait is estimated to be about 9.3 million barrels per day, Tasnim news agency said. The claim comes as an IRGC adviser said that the strait is “fully controlled” by Iran and will remain closed until the US accepts its demands, adding that the volume of oil currently being smuggled out is “very small” . But ultimately, Iran is admitting it is enduring severe economic hardship amid a heavily sanctioned wartime economy. There's a battle of narratives over Hormuz and markets as well as mainstream Western media are simply favoring once side while ignoring the claims of the other at this point: IRAN WAR ANALYSIS: It is VERY obvious now that the Iranians were simply not TRYING to strike vessels transiting the Strait of Hormuz in recent weeks. 13 vessels have now been struck just in the last 8 days, and most importantly of all, many of these vessels have been completely disabled, set ablaze, or blacked out. This is a disaster. — Brett Erickson (@BrettErickson28) October 6, 2026 The stalemate looks to endure past the November midterm elections in the US, as even President Trump has seemed to lately suggest this status won't change until after the US vote. He has also signaled a heavy bombing campaign against the Islamic Republic could ensue by November's end . 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"Pentagon Prepares 'Options' For Trump To Strike Iran Before Midterms","image":["https://assets.zerohedge.com/s3fs-public/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/tehranelect.jpg?itok=9rKA9TqR"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T16:15:00-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories

===== zerohedge.com/spacex-credit-risk-hits-new-high-ai-debt-binge-fears-spook-bondholders
SpaceX's proposed $40 billion chip-collateralized financing for Nvidia AI chips, reported overnight by the Financial Times, has restarted concerns over the pace of its debt-funded expansion, which as we discussed last night, , is starting to flash a dangerous shade of red: despite raising a record $86 billion in its June IPO, Elon Musk's rocket and AI company's growing financing needs are weighing on sentiment, with its 2056 bonds sliding and five-year credit default swaps surging . After selling $25 billion in bonds shortly after its public listing, SpaceX is now seeking roughly $10 billion in bank loans and $30 billion in investment-grade debt. We laid out what this means for Musk's company in a note titled " From Record IPO To Record Chip-Collateralized Loan In 16 Weeks: SpaceX Taps Apollo For $40 Billion In SPV Debt ." If completed, that would bring issued and proposed borrowing since June to $65 billion. The market's verdict was immediate: on Wednesday, SpaceX's 2056 bonds fell to a new low of around 84.70 cents on the dollar as of 11:25 a.m. in New York, compared with 98.83 cents on the dollar when the securities were issued in June as part of a $25 billion inaugural senior unsecured notes offering . Meanwhile, as expected, the proposed borrowing binge sent the company's CDS up as much as 16.2 basis points to about 197.3 basis points Wednesday, the highest on record, and more appropriate for a junk rated company. Tony Trzcinka, a portfolio manager at Impax Asset Management, was quoted by the outlet as saying the concerns are " mainly about how much debt SpaceX is adding and how fast ." " As a result, the existing bonds have to fall in price now so that their yields stay in line with what the new bonds will likely pay ," Trzcinka said. Sal Naro, chief investment officer at Coherence Credit Strategies, warned the outlet that " this is an unprecedented debt supply with no real ending in sight," adding, "The world has never seen an infrastructure build like this. This is larger than the railroads because this is global, all at once ." Meanwhile, SPCX stock continues to rise as if nothing bad has happened, soaring 59% since early August . That said, SpaceX is just one small part of the bigger picture: recall that Morgan Stanley estimated AI infrastructure will need $1.5 trillion in external financing by 2028 . SpaceX's $40 billion is just the latest installment ( read our note here ). 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"SpaceX Credit Risk Hits New High As AI Debt Binge Fears Spook Bondholders","image":["https://cms.zerohedge.com/s3/files/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/Snag_9f16093_0.png?h=316b6d18&itok=8A8CiNz_"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T14:25:00-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories

===== zerohedge.com/us-deploy-anti-ship-missile-system-japanese-island-near-taiwan
Authored by Dave DeCamp via AntiWar.com , The US military will deploy an anti-ship missile system to Japan's westernmost island of Yonaguni, which lies just 68 miles east of Taiwan, an unprecedented move that will ratchet up tensions with China. US Marines and a NMESIS system in Calayan, Philippines on June 25, 2026 (US Marine Corps photo) US Marines will deploy with the Navy-Marine Expeditionary Ship Interdiction System, or NMESIS, as part of Keen Sword, the largest joint US-Japanese biennial military exercise. The NMESIS has a range of about 115 miles, putting it within striking range of vessels patrolling the eastern coast of Taiwan . According to The South China Morning Post , China has stepped up coast guard and naval activity in the area in response to maritime boundary talks announced in May between Japan and the Philippines. Song Zhongping, a Chinese military expert, told China's Global Times that the deployment increases the risk of miscalculation between the US and China and that Beijing may respond by conducting its own military drills in the area. The Okinawa Defense Bureau first disclosed the deployment on October 1, and it will also include a Marine Air Defense Integrated System, or Maidas, a ground-based air defense system also used by the Marine Corps' littoral force. The first Marine Littoral Regiment was established in 2022 as part of the Marine Corps' Force Design strategy, which is explicitly focused on preparing for a potential conflict with China . The idea was to create mobile Marine units equipped with anti-ship missiles and other weapons that can rapidly deploy along what is known as the First Island Chain, a string of archipelagos stretching from Japan's southern islands through Taiwan and the Philippines and into the southern South China Sea. 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"US To Deploy Anti-Ship Missile System To Japanese Island Near Taiwan","image":["https://cms.zerohedge.com/s3/files/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/NMESIS_80.jpg?itok=jDN2YuP7"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T11:25:00-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories
