PUB: None
LD: 2026-10-01T23:00:00-0400
Hegseth Reveals "AutoWarCom" As $74 Billion Drone Splurge May Ignite This Stock | ZeroHedge
ZeroHedge Reads
Alt-Market
AntiWar.com
Bitcoin Magazine
Bombthrower
BULLIONSTAR
Capitalist Exploits
Christophe Barraud
Dollar Collapse
Dr. Housing Bubble
Financial Revolutionist
ForexLive
Forum Geopolitica
Gains Pains & Capital
Gefira
GMG Research
Gold Core
Implode-Explode
Insider Paper
Libertarian Institute
Liberty Blitzkrieg
Max Keiser
Mises Institute
Mish Talk
Monetary Metals
Newsquawk
Of Two Minds
Oil Price
Open The Books
Peter Schiff
Portfolio Armor
QTR’s Fringe Finance
Safehaven
Slope of Hope
SpotGamma
TF Metals Report
The Automatic Earth
The Burning Platform
The Economic Populist
Themis Trading
Thoughtful Money
Value Walk
Visual Combat Banzai7
Wolf Street
Expand
Beyond nuclear, the "powering up America" theme, AI, and the more recent "own the bottlenecks" theme, we have also outlined incoming tailwinds for drone and counter-UAS companies as the Department of War adapts to the wars in Ukraine and the Gulf area. That requires massive drone stockpiling and the development of conflict-free supply chains.
To do this, Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth is creating a four-star combatant command for autonomous warfare, seeking to accelerate the DoW's purchases across all categories of drones, robotics, and AI to prepare the military for warfare that has forever changed - that inflection point arrived in March. 
The Autonomous Warfare Command, dubbed "AutoWarCom," is set to become operational in the fall of next year, according to a new Wall Street Journal report.
The WSJ quoted Hegseth as saying in a speech earlier at US Marine Corps Base Quantico, Virginia, that this effort will be "the fastest peacetime shift in modern military history."
The key is the massive rearmament supercycle set to kick off, if it hasn't already. It will provide massive tailwinds for drone companies as the military begins stockpiling all categories of drones and counter-UAS technology while fortifying military installations around the world. 
To do this, the US supply chain must be built out to produce millions of one-way attack drones with components made domestically or in conflict-free areas. In other words, drone engines, blades, sensors, and other components must be sourced outside China.
Owen West, a former Marine, assistant defense secretary, and Goldman Sachs trader, will initially lead the effort alongside Navy SEAL test pilot Max Strasiser, according to the outlet.
"Once we apply sustained budget to changed doctrine, we will outperform the world," said West, who has been leading the Pentagon's Defense Innovation Unit. "And by snapping in AI, we will be ahead of the world, because we are the leaders in AI."
To understand the tailwinds coming to the drone industry, the report notes that the DoW has sought to triple spending on autonomous warfare, proposing $74 billion for drone and counterdrone technology in its largest-ever budget request.
Our drone theme began in late January, when we warned (read report) that every data center needs a kinetic interceptor (read here). The worst-case scenario materialized a month later when Iran attacked several data centers in the Gulf with one-way attack drones. Our pick in the space is Ondas.
Our reporting from last weekend shows that the DoW nearly doubled the value of a contract for Ondas' ULTRA platform, which appears to be a lower-cost Group 5 drone that could complement the MQ-9 Reaper and eventually assume some of its ISR missions (read report).
Follow the money. 
* * *
Sign Up For ZH Premium
Today's Top Stories
Contact Information+
Assistance and Requests: Contact Us
Tips: tips@zerohedge.com
General: info@zerohedge.com
Legal: legal@zerohedge.com
Advertising: Contact Us
Abuse/Complaints: abuse@zerohedge.com
Suggested Reading+
Make sure to read our "How To [Read/Tip Off] Zero Hedge Without Attracting The
                      Interest Of [Human Resources/The Treasury/Black
                      Helicopters]" Guide
It would be very wise of you to study our privacy policyand our (non)policy on conflicts / full disclosure.Here's our Cookie Policy. 
How to report offensive comments
Notice on Racial Discrimination. 
