# ZH morning articles fetched 2026-10-07 ~7:10am PT (iPhone UA). Jake pasted the X feed (~7:05am).

===== zerohedge.com/futures-slide-record-oil-jumps-hormuz-tanker-attacks-30y-yield-hits-2002-high
US equity futures are sliding from Tuesday's record close as oil climbs back above $100, global bond yields resume their ascent and the AI bubble debate makes an unwelcome comeback. As of 8:00am ET, S&P futures are 0.4% lower, trading around 7,844, while Nasdaq 100 and Dow futures drop 0.6%; small caps are also under pressure with Russell 2000 futures down 0.3-0.4% as usual. On Tuesday the S&P 500 rose 0.6% to close at a record high for the first time since August 13, its fourth consecutive advance and longest winning streak in about two months, with the Nasdaq 100 also closing at an all-time high. Premarket, the Mag 7 are mixed (Apple +0.4%, Tesla -0.8%) while Memory, Semis and Software are all lower as the AI theme sees some profit-taking following a slide in Korea's Kospi; Constellation Brands slides 4.7% after the Corona brewer reaffirmed guidance, Neogen jumps 11% on an earnings beat, and SpaceX falls 2% on a report it is seeking to raise $40 billion in a chip-backed SPV to buy Nvidia chips . The day's driver is once again oil: Iran has increased the pace of attacks on tankers in the Strait of Hormuz just as shipments through the chokepoint approach prewar levels, sending Brent up 1.4% to $101.94 and WTI up 0.7% to $90.02. That has pushed Treasuries lower, with the long end leading: the 30-year yield climbed 5bps to 5.70%, the highest since 2002, while the 10Y trades around 5.335%, up 5bps, and 2s10s is 4bps steeper. The Bloomberg Dollar Spot Index rose 0.3%, approaching its highest levels since June, as the euro slid to a 16-month low against the pound amid renewed French fiscal angst, with the OAT-Bund spread back out to 138bps. Gold dropped 1% to around $4,121 and silver fell 1.9% to $60.21, while copper is flat with Chinese buyers still away for Golden Week. Bitcoin is down 2.4% near $83,600. US economic data slate includes MBA mortgage applications (7am, -4.2%), September NY Fed 1-year inflation expectations (11am), FOMC minutes from the September 16 meeting (2pm) and August consumer credit (3pm). The Treasury sells $39 billion of 10-year notes in a reopening at 1pm. In premarket trading, Magnificent Seven stocks are mixed: Apple (AAPL) +0.6%, Meta Platforms (META) -0.1%, Alphabet (GOOGL) -0.5%, Nvidia (NVDA) -0.6%, Amazon (AMZN) -0.6%, Microsoft (MSFT) -0.7%, Tesla (TSLA) -0.8% Constellation Brands (STZ) is down 3.6% after the maker of Modelo Especial and Corona Extra reaffirmed its comparable earnings per share forecast for the full year. The company also announced the acquisition of SpikedAde, a vodka-based drink brand. Enphase Energy Inc. (ENPH) and SolarEdge Technologies Inc. (SEDG) shares fall 3% and 3.4%, respectively, after Deutsche Bank issued sell catalyst calls on the solar stocks on expected lower growth. Flutter Entertainment shares (FLUT) rise 3% after Citi upgraded it to buy from neutral, saying recent share-price weakness on concerns over Brazil and September US sports results is overdone. Neogen shares (NEOG) climb 13% after the life sciences firm reported adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter that exceeded Wall Street’s expectations. NetApp Inc. shares (NTAP) are up 2.4% after Evercore ISI upgraded the computer hardware and storage company to outperform from inline, seeing a strong growth outlook. Penguin Solutions shares (PENG) are up 4.2% after the semiconductor device company reported fourth-quarter results that beat expectations and gave an outlook that is seen as strong. SailPoint Inc. shares (SAIL) are up 0.9% after Oppenheimer & Co. started coverage on the software company with an outperform rating and $30 price target, seeing strong growth potential related to AI. Sigma Lithium shares (SGML) gain 5.8% as the company said it has resumed operations after a Brazilian court of appeals upheld its environmental licenses. SpaceX (SPCX) shares fall 1.9% as it is in talks with banks and investors to raise $40 billion to buy chips from Nvidia Corp., people familiar with the matter said, in what would be among the biggest-ever debt financings for the AI buildout. Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. ADRs (TSMC) fall 2.2% as Elon Musk said his business empire will build and operate Terafab independently, quashing speculation about industry TSMC swooping in to run his ambitious chipmaking venture. Vylor Inc. (VYLR -0.9%) was initiated with a sector weight rating, while Corteva Inc. (CTVA +0.7%) was upgraded to overweight as KeyBanc Capital Markets looks to earnings growth potential. Webull Corp. shares (BULL) fall 30% after CNBC reported that the US House Select Committee on China is set to release a report on Wednesday that Webull is tied structurally to the government in China, raising national security concerns. Zscaler shares (ZS) are up 0.5% with analysts positive on the security software company in the wake of an investor day event that increased confidence about its growth potential. In other corporate news, Apple’s upcoming smart home devices will include a doorbell, thermostat, and other accessories developed through a partnership with LG Electronics. Shell expects to report strong results from oil trading in the third quarter as a squeeze on global fuel supplies drives refining margins to a record. HSBC is planning sweeping job cuts across its UK wealth management business as part of a broader push to use AI to serve affluent clients more efficiently, the FT reported. Frasers Group acquired an 8.8% stake in Under Armour. Affiliates of Energy Capital Partners are selling about $891 million of shares in Constellation Energy in an unregistered block trade, while Oaktree sold its remaining 6.2% stake in Torm. Black Hills will invest $1.8 billion serving a Google data center, CRH is buying aggregates operations in Denmark and Finland, and Porsche plans to raise prices of its top-end sports cars by an average of 20%. A rally in stocks came to a halt and global bonds fell as mounting attacks on tankers in the Middle East pushed oil prices higher. "Stocks are taking a breather after closing at new record highs," Bloomberg's Neil Campling writes, noting that volumes, volatility and single stock dispersion remain low, with AI and earnings continuing to dominate the narrative. Meanwhile, the debate around an AI bubble is back: Temasek’s CIO said the unwinding of the AI trade is the biggest risk facing global markets along with inflation, Ray Dalio warned once more that AI is a “classic bubble” near bursting point, and the IMF sees the world facing risks from AI, a prolonged energy shock and record debt piles. Not that the market seems to care much: as we noted last night , stocks hit fresh record highs even as the 10Y hovers near its highest since 2002, and earnings concentration is getting absurd, with Micron and Nvidia alone set to deliver a third of Q3 earnings growth . “Bond markets really worry about the outlook for fiscal policy, but the political reality is that the people on the ground are not ready to accept that,” she said. “Extraordinary” AI-related earnings growth should keep certain major indexes relatively resilient despite rising yields, says Mark Cudmore of Bloomberg’s MLIV. Earnings growth expectations for the upcoming season have been ticking higher and are currently sitting at 24.5%. Barclays strategists agree that the AI boom remains a key earnings driver, but note that rising debt issuance and capital intensity are putting returns under greater scrutiny. In other AI news, SpaceX is said to be in talks with banks and investors to raise $40 billion to buy chips from Nvidia (we covered the Apollo-led SPV debt here ). Given that SpaceX is currently sitting on $100 billion of cash, the financing isn’t out of necessity, but speaks to the ongoing appetite for AI deals in credit markets. AMD is working with customers to optimize memory footprints as tight supplies persist, and Intel said it will continue to work with Elon Musk on Terafab. For traders getting more nervous about AI names, BofA strategists recommend tapping equity derivatives both to benefit from the record rally and hedge against the fallout from a potential bubble. Traders are also looking to the upcoming earnings season to see whether profits can support valuations despite macro headwinds and whether the artificial-intelligence boom still has plenty of legs. “It’s the period before earnings when there’s a bit of a lull, so markets can be pushed around easily,” said Guy Miller at Zurich Insurance. “The focus point is still around bond yields. There was relief yesterday but let’s be clear, nothing fundamental has changed.” JPM's Market Intel desk under Andrew Tyler remains Tactically Bullish and thinks the market "may not be BULLISH enough into earnings": FactSet reports 26Q3 set a record for the largest number of positive pre-announcements, all 11 sectors are expected to show positive revenue and earnings growth, and consensus sees 12.3% revenue growth and 29.5% earnings growth with 15.0% margins (vs 52.3% EPS growth in Q2). The desk sees a broadening, but given where yields are, prefers a barbell with large-caps over small-caps and AI/Tech as the core. JPM also notes the bond market now prices a ~22% chance of an October hike and ~80% for December, down from 70% and 84% at the start of last week. JPM's Manish Sinha is less sanguine, flagging that the Equity Risk Premium is negative , which " effectively requires a meaningful earnings re-rating higher to justify taking equity risk ," and that Momentum looks vulnerable either way. Goldman's desk is turning more cautious. US derivatives MD Shawn Tuteja writes that "the Tech / AI asymmetry has shifted. The macro is unequivocally more difficult, and the positioning within AI and large-cap tech no longer seem to be tailwinds." Since Aug 27, the SPX is +1.28% while the S&P ex-AI names is down 5.19%, and Mag 7 net exposure on GS Prime is near 22% of total US exposure, the highest since the start of 2022. His left-tail scenario: one where "the Fed must hike an excessive number of times to maintain credibility in the backend of the bond curve." In London, Goldman Delta One head Rich Privorotsky says today's tape "feels less like generic risk off and more like higher oil + higher real rates increasingly biting the duration sensitive parts of the tape ," adding that "more leverage in the AI ecosystem is not exactly what the market wants to hear right now." Meanwhile, the GS cash desk notes hedge fund nets are approaching a 5-year low with market breadth at the lowest level since 2000 (no wonder traders keep paying up for protection ). On the macro front, FOMC minutes come later but may offer less insight into current thinking given Warsh’s desire to trust the data and with PCE revisions and jobs data having been released since the Sept. meeting. Speaking of inflation, oil is ticking higher as traders weigh increased flows through the Strait of Hormuz against a pickup in Iranian attacks against vessels. Elsewhere, the EU is preparing safeguard measures to limit imports of Chinese hybrid vehicles into the bloc. France is back on the tape: the spread between French and German 10-year yields widened as much as 10bps to 138bps, unwinding Tuesday's Le Pen relief rally, as investors continue to price in heightened fiscal pressure around budget negotiations (and as Goldman warned , the "Le Pen bounce" was not to be trusted ). ECB's Moulin said the situation on France’s bond market is complicated and serious, but doesn’t warrant intervention from Frankfurt. Not everyone is panicking: “Unlike previous episodes of severe sovereign stress in the euro area, we do not see evidence of broader financial contagion,” ABN Amro senior rates strategist Larissa de Barros Fritz wrote. “We do not expect OAT-Bund spreads to reach the 200bp+ levels seen during past Italian stress episodes.” In Europe, the Stoxx 600 is down 0.4% at 633.64, ending a three-day run of gains as oil prices climbed and bond yields resumed their rise, with 351 member

===== zerohedge.com/offshore-rigs-major-refineries-path-seasons-first-hurricane-isaias-gains-strength
Tropical Storm Isaias is forecast to strengthen into a Category 2 hurricane , with the northern US Gulf Coast in its crosshairs later this week. The cone of uncertainty includes critical energy assets , such as offshore oil rigs and major refineries. Isaias was about 285 miles west of Progreso, Mexico, with maximum sustained winds of 40 miles per hour, the National Hurricane Center wrote in its latest advisory. It is expected to become a hurricane Thursday. Dozens of offshore oil and natural gas rigs are in the storm's path. Chevron is evacuating nonessential personnel from its Gulf platforms as a precaution. Isaias' projected landfall area currently spans Louisiana, Alabama, Mississippi, and the Florida Panhandle. One notable refinery in thestorm'ss path is Chevron's Pascagoula refinery , located on Mississippi's Gulf Coast, which can process 369,000 barrels of crude a day. The refinery produces gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and premium base oils. List of major US refineries in the storm's path: September ended without a hurricane for the first time in 32 years, as strong wind shear associated with El Niño disrupted tropical development. Isaias is expected to become the first Atlantic hurricane of the season. 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"Isaias Forecast To Become Season's First Atlantic Hurricane, Threatening Gulf Coast Rigs, Major Refineries","image":["https://cms.zerohedge.com/s3/files/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/Snag_8e363d1.png?itok=Hk87k86q"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T08:25:00-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories

===== zerohedge.com/standard-chartered-says-hormuz-oil-flows-are-far-normal
Authored by Alex Kimani via OilPrice.com , Gulf oil exports rebounded to roughly 16.5 million bpd in September, near pre-war levels, despite only 60% of those barrels crossing Hormuz versus 83% before the war. Exporters have adapted through pipelines, bypass ports and extensive ship-to-ship transfers, but the system is more expensive, inefficient and increasingly stretched, with elevated freight and security costs. Iran’s ability to choke off regional oil exports has weakened, while its own seaborne crude exports have fallen from around 1.7 million bpd to near zero. Oil flows through the Middle East have staged an impressive rebound , with export volumes recovering to near pre-war levels even as traffic through the Strait of Hormuz remains well below normal. Standard Chartered estimates crude and condensate exports from the Gulf, excluding Iran and including bypass routes such as Fujairah and the Red Sea, reached roughly 16.5 million barrels per day (bpd) in September, broadly back to pre-war volumes. But only 60% of those barrels crossed the Strait of Hormuz, compared with 83% before the war. Standard Chartered says the numbers show resilience rather than normalization: exporters have found ways to move the oil, but they are doing it less efficiently and at considerably higher cost. The system has been forced to use more complex workarounds, particularly a vessel-intensive chain of ship-to-ship (STS) transfers. Shuttle tankers are increasingly moving crude through Hormuz before transferring it to larger vessels in the Gulf of Oman, while exporters are also making greater use of pipelines and ports that bypass the strait. The southern route along the Omani coast has become an important route for shuttle vessels moving through Hormuz. Standard Chartered says STS capacity appears saturated, vessel utilization remains inefficient, voyage times have lengthened and both freight and security costs remain elevated. Saudi Arabia perhaps best illustrates both the success and limits of this adaptation. Following the early-September damage to the East-West pipeline, exports shifted sharply to the east coast. Standard Chartered estimates total Saudi exports rebounded to roughly 6.9 million bpd in September from 2.45 million bpd in August, with 19 VLCCs transiting Hormuz in one week alone. The restart of the East-West pipeline and Yanbu loadings has restored another route to market and reduced the immediate risk of shutting in production, although pipeline throughput remains below nameplate capacity and exposed to further attacks. The workarounds are also expensive, with reports of discounts of up to $9 per barrel on cargoes loaded offshore Oman to compensate for the added logistical costs. The recovery in physical flows has reduced the probability of the most extreme shortage scenarios and should gradually remove some of the scarcity premium in oil prices. But those barrels are moving at higher cost, with longer voyage times, heavier use of tankers and less spare capacity in the logistics system. Standard Chartered says the improvement is bearish compared with a market pricing a prolonged physical supply loss, but does not justify a return to pre-war risk premiums. Exporters have shown they can move far more crude than many expected, but the system has less room to absorb another major disruption. The tactical success of Gulf exporters has also altered regional dynamics. Seaborne crude exports from Iran fell to near zero in September, down from roughly 1.7 million bpd before the war, after the U.S. naval blockade sharply curtailed Tehran's ability to move crude through Hormuz. Consequently, Iran's ability to weaponize its chokehold on the Strait of Hormuz is breaking down, though this increases the risk of unpredictable military escalation. Iran remains defiant and reiterated Sunday that the Strait of Hormuz will remain closed until the United States fulfills seven conditions contained in the June interim agreement. Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi said separately that Tehran's latest proposal could lead to the strait reopening within seven days if Washington accepts Iran's terms. Tehran has denied reports that it offered international nuclear inspections in exchange for sanctions relief. Araghchi has said Iran hopes Washington will pursue diplomacy, but warned that the country is better prepared than before to respond if the U.S. opts for further military action. 0 {"@context":"https://schema.org","@type":"NewsArticle","headline":"Standard Chartered Says Hormuz Oil Flows Are Far From Normal","image":["https://cms.zerohedge.com/s3/files/styles/16_9_max_700/public/2026-10/2026-10-05_olt8d5fkka.jpg?itok=v8Qz6Nhj"],"author":[{"@type":"Person","name":"Tyler Durden","url":"https://www.zerohedge.com/about"}],"datePublished":"2026-10-07T07:20:00-0400"} Sign Up For ZH Premium Today's Top Stories
