##### saudi_exports | https://gcaptain.com/saudi-oil-exports-dive-as-tankers-at-risk-from-hormuz-to-red-sea/
Total Views: 1015 September 2, 2026 (Bloomberg) — Saudi Arabia’s observed crude exports last month slumped to the lowest in at least nine years, as tankers were attacked following rising tensions in the Middle East. The kingdom’s oil exports were about 3 million barrels a day in August, tanker-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg, Vortexa and Kpler show. The number, the lowest in records going back to early 2017, chimes with the assessment of crude traders and a person familiar with Saudi operations. Saudi ships have come under attack in the Red Sea from Yemen’s Houthi militants, threatening shipments on a route that the kingdom has been using throughout the war to avoid the fiercely contested Strait of Hormuz . Two more tankers carrying Saudi crude were hit by projectiles in the strait this week amid the latest hostilities between the US and Iran. One of the vessels attacked was owned by the country’s shipping arm Bahri, which said that two seafarers were killed. The continuing attacks are spooking Saudi Arabia’s customers, some of whom have now become reluctant to use the kingdom’s Red Sea ports. That’s forced Riyadh to look at alternative voyages all the way around Africa, which add thousands of miles and further disrupts global supply chains already strained by six months of conflict in the region. Saudi Arabia was able to quickly switch its oil exports to its Red Sea coast soon after the war started in late February and Iran effectively shut Hormuz, the gateway to Riyadh’s oil terminals on its Persian Gulf coast. The shipments were crucial in blunting an oil price surge and helped to shield economies from an inflation spike. Exports through the west coast port of Yanbu climbed to about 4.3 million barrels a day in June compared with about 770,000 barrels a day in January, according to tracking data compiled by Bloomberg.  They eased to 3.7 million barrels a day the following month, as the Houthis announced a blockade on Saudi shipping, and dropped further to roughly 2.25 million barrels a day last month. Meanwhile, exports through the Persian Gulf that recovered slightly to about 800,000 barrels a day in July fell back again in August. The latest monthly figures are provisional and may be revised as more dark transits and related ship-to-ship transfers are identified. Saudi Aramco declined to comment on the numbers while the energy ministry didn’t respond to a request for comment. The decline comes as a setback for both the kingdom and global markets. There were signs last month that oil loadings were starting to increase from the giant Ras Tanura terminal on the Persian Gulf coast, with satellite images showing a cluster of four tankers loading. It was adding to supply coming out of Iraq and Kuwait, while the United Arab Emirates was successfully shuttling cargoes out through Hormuz.  But tensions in the region have ratcheted higher this week after the US attacked military targets in Iran and the Islamic Republic retaliated by firing projectiles toward other Gulf states that host American bases. That helped to push crude oil prices in London back above $95 a barrel, the highest since late-July, and to stoke concerns about inflationary impacts and possible interest rate hikes.            © 2026 Bloomberg L.P. Tags: red sea saudi arabia strait of hormuz tanker attacks Subscribe for Daily Maritime Insights Sign up for gCaptain’s newsletter and never miss an update — trusted by our 107,336 members Prev Back to Main Next Stay Informed. Stay Connected. Get The Daily Insights That Power Maritime Professionals Worldwide Essential maritime and offshore news, insights, and updates delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members Have a news tip? Let us know. Stay Ahead with Our Weekly ‘Dispatch’ Email Dive into a sea of curated content with our weekly ‘Dispatch’ email. Your personal maritime briefing awaits! Sign Up Sign In Related Articles Shipping Hormuz Traffic Dips To Lowest Since May After US, Iranian Strikes On Ships By Florence Tan SINGAPORE, Sept 7 (Reuters) – An average of 10 commodity ships transited the Strait of Hormuz per day over the past 10 days, the lowest since May, according to shipping data... 16 hours ago Total Views: 920 Shipping Gulf Shipping Traffic Via Hormuz Keeps Below 10-day Average, Data Shows Four commodity vessels transited the key waterway of the Strait of Hormuz on Thursday, down from nine a day earlier and well below the 10-day average tally of about 15, preliminary shipping data showed. September 4, 2026 Total Views: 824 News War Risk Claims Top $2 Billion as Shipping Attacks Spread Beyond Hormuz By Lori-Ann LaRocco – The payout to vessel owners damaged in the Iran War is the second-biggest payout for marine underwriters in more than a decade, according to maritime insurance... September 3, 2026 Total Views: 1313 Get The Industry’s Go-To News Subscribe to gCaptain Daily and stay informed with the latest global maritime and offshore news — just like 107,336 professionals Secure Your Spot on the gCaptain Crew Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members The Go-To Source for your Daily Maritime and Offshore News Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members. Information About Careers Advertise with gCaptain Privacy Policy Contacts For general inquiries and to contact us, please email: [email protected] To submit a story idea or contact our editors, please email: [email protected] For advertising opportunities contact Email: [email protected] Phone: +1.805.704.2536. x Your Gateway to the Maritime World! Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up 

##### war_risk | https://gcaptain.com/war-risk-claims-top-2-billion-as-shipping-attacks-spread-beyond-hormuz/
Total Views: 1292 September 3, 2026 By Lori-Ann LaRocco – The payout to vessel owners damaged in the Iran War is the second-biggest payout for marine underwriters in more than a decade, according to maritime insurance experts. “There have been around $2 billion in war risk claims since the outbreak of the fighting in the Middle East, with over 70 claims to date,” explained David Osler, Law & Marine Insurance Editor at Lloyd’s List. “This will be offset by heavily enhanced premium income. I think it’s exceeded only by payouts on the container ship that brought down the bridge in Baltimore in 2024.” There have been more than 72 attacks on ships since March, according to the International Maritime Organization. Osler reports that underwriters warn the market could face multibillion-dollar liabilities in total-loss claims if the crisis in the Strait of Hormuz persists. Since the start of the war, Lloyd’s List coverage shows war risk insurance premiums for the Strait of Hormuz have surged to between 40 and 60 times pre-crisis levels. These increases have been passed on to the price of oil. “Roughly $7 or $8 on the price of a barrel of crude is now tied to war risk insurance,” said Osler. “That’s a bad enough situation, and it’s become even worse in recent weeks after the announced self-declared ban on Saudi tonnage passing through Bab el-Mandeb.” The Houthis, an Iranian-backed proxy group, launched a naval blockade against Saudi Arabia, targeting the Port of Yanbu, Saudi oil sites and commercial tankers linked to Saudi Arabia. Since the start of the war, Saudi Arabia has been active in finding alternatives to move its oil. Before the attacks, Saudi Arabia successfully expanded the capacity of its East-West pipeline, diverting approximately 75 percent of its oil away from the Strait of Hormuz. Now, with attacks on Saudi-related vessels in the Red Sea and Yanbu, Saudi Arabia has pivoted again, moving 1.9 million barrels of crude per day through a pipeline in Egypt that carries it to the Mediterranean Sea. This route is costlier and takes weeks longer for oil to reach markets in Asia. The expansion of maritime attacks has led underwriters to extend their list of designated war risk areas 800 kilometers farther up the Saudi west coast on the Red Sea. This also applies to reinsurers. “They have figured out if war risk underwriters need to cover all their bases, so do they, and they have repriced the premiums they charge to reinsure charterers’ liability coverage,” said Osler. “The most important point here is that charterers’ liability cover now has a blanket exclusion on vessels associated with Saudi Arabia in any way.” Osler explained that the exclusion applies strictly to the standard product and that ships or charterers with a Saudi nexus can still obtain coverage. “They just have to pay a lot more for it,” he said. “This certainly concerned the Saudi government, which is reportedly looking to get some sort of state-backed guarantee scheme in place to bring down these costs for Saudi interests.” Osler said a Saudi delegation was in London last week to talk to brokers about such a scheme, and it was not the first time they had tried to put one in place. “Rates have fluctuated with political developments, but they’re currently sitting as high as 10% of hull value,” explained Osler. “Remember that VLCCs are worth around $140 million, and you see the size of the problem.” Tags: Iran conflict marine insurance strait of hormuz war risk Subscribe for Daily Maritime Insights Sign up for gCaptain’s newsletter and never miss an update — trusted by our 107,336 members Prev Back to Main Next Stay Informed. Stay Connected. Get The Daily Insights That Power Maritime Professionals Worldwide Essential maritime and offshore news, insights, and updates delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members Have a news tip? Let us know. Stay Ahead with Our Weekly ‘Dispatch’ Email Dive into a sea of curated content with our weekly ‘Dispatch’ email. Your personal maritime briefing awaits! Sign Up Sign In Related Articles News Iran Says to Announce New Restricted Zone in the Gulf in the Coming Days Iran said it will announce a new restricted zone in the Gulf in the coming days, along with maps of a new shipping corridor through the Strait of Hormuz, as a weekend exchange of strikes on shipping sent oil prices higher on Monday. 7 hours ago Total Views: 635 Shipping Hormuz Traffic Dips To Lowest Since May After US, Iranian Strikes On Ships By Florence Tan SINGAPORE, Sept 7 (Reuters) – An average of 10 commodity ships transited the Strait of Hormuz per day over the past 10 days, the lowest since May, according to shipping data... 15 hours ago Total Views: 730 News Iran, US Trade Tit-for-Tat Tanker Attacks As War Drags On By Eltaf Najafizada and Weilun Soon Sep 6, 2026 (Bloomberg) –Iran said it targeted three oil tankers using an unauthorized route through the Strait of Hormuz, as well as a number... September 6, 2026 Total Views: 815 Get The Industry’s Go-To News Subscribe to gCaptain Daily and stay informed with the latest global maritime and offshore news — just like 107,336 professionals Secure Your Spot on the gCaptain Crew Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members The Go-To Source for your Daily Maritime and Offshore News Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members. Information About Careers Advertise with gCaptain Privacy Policy Contacts For general inquiries and to contact us, please email: [email protected] To submit a story idea or contact our editors, please email: [email protected] For advertising opportunities contact Email: [email protected] Phone: +1.805.704.2536. x Your Gateway to the Maritime World! Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up 

##### cpc_moorings | https://gcaptain.com/ukraine-attacks-ship-used-to-repair-key-black-sea-oil-moorings/
Total Views: 1168 September 3, 2026 (Bloomberg) — Ukraine attacked a small service ship involved in planned repair works at the key CPC oil terminal in the Black Sea , a person with knowledge of the matter said. The facility is vital to Kazakstan’s crude exports. The Nefrit has almost completed works at one mooring and was set to start replacing some equipment at another, the person said on condition of anonymity as the information is not public. The attack puts the scheduled works in limbo and raises uncertainty over CPC’s future crude-loading operations, the person said. The CPC press office declined to comment “on the ongoing work of any CPC contractors,” when asked whether the Nefrit was working for the sea terminal Operations at CPC have been closely watched following repeated disruptions in July as Ukraine and Russia intensified strikes against each other in the Black Sea. A spate of attacks on tankers calling at the terminal, which accounted for almost 2% of global oil supplies at one stage this year, led to a significant drop in crude exports, and are expected to cut Kazakhstan’s crude production this year. CPC has three offshore moorings and normally loads crude from two of them, with a third serving as backup. Mooring 2 was damaged in a November 2025 attack and was replaced earlier this year, with tests underway, Kazakhstan’s Energy Ministry said in late August. The ministry expected all three CPC moorings to be operational already this month. Ukraine’s Military Navy Forces earlier on Thursday said its sea drone attacked the Nefrit vessel near Russia’s Black Sea port of Sochi. “A powerful explosion and smoke were recorded in the area of the ship,” Ukraine’s Navy said in a statement on Telegram. The Nefrit has “provided oil and gas operations, serviced offshore facilities, transported cargo and personnel, and performed underwater technical work,” thus supporting Russia’s economy and financing the war against Ukraine, the statement said.   © 2026 Bloomberg L.P. Tags: black sea ukraine Ukraine War Subscribe for Daily Maritime Insights Sign up for gCaptain’s newsletter and never miss an update — trusted by our 107,336 members Prev Back to Main Next Stay Informed. Stay Connected. Get The Daily Insights That Power Maritime Professionals Worldwide Essential maritime and offshore news, insights, and updates delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members Have a news tip? Let us know. Stay Ahead with Our Weekly ‘Dispatch’ Email Dive into a sea of curated content with our weekly ‘Dispatch’ email. Your personal maritime briefing awaits! Sign Up Sign In Related Articles News Russian Expedition Ship Seized in Norway Over $4.22 Billion Naftogaz Claim Norwegian authorities have seized a Russian-owned expedition ship in Svalbard at the request of Ukraine’s Naftogaz Group as the company seeks to enforce a $4.22 billion arbitration award against Russia... September 2, 2026 Total Views: 3145 News Ships Turn to Makeshift Armor as Black Sea Attacks Surge Tankers and cargo ships are transiting the Bosphorus strait adorned with nets, water tanks and tyres to try to fend off growing Russian and Ukrainian drone strikes in the Black Sea, according to security experts and video obtained by Reuters. September 2, 2026 Total Views: 1317 News Black Sea Tensions Lead Grain Buyers to Tap Baltic States Baltic grain exporters are seeing a boost in demand as blocked supplies from the Black Sea region are spurring buyers to seek alternative sources. August 27, 2026 Total Views: 613 Get The Industry’s Go-To News Subscribe to gCaptain Daily and stay informed with the latest global maritime and offshore news — just like 107,336 professionals Secure Your Spot on the gCaptain Crew Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members The Go-To Source for your Daily Maritime and Offshore News Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members. Information About Careers Advertise with gCaptain Privacy Policy Contacts For general inquiries and to contact us, please email: [email protected] To submit a story idea or contact our editors, please email: [email protected] For advertising opportunities contact Email: [email protected] Phone: +1.805.704.2536. x Your Gateway to the Maritime World! Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up 

##### capesize | https://gcaptain.com/dry-bulk-shipping-rates-surge-on-tight-capesize-vessel-supply/
Total Views: 521 September 3, 2026 By Katharine Gemmell and Weilun Soon (Bloomberg) — A key measure of bulk-shipping rates has touched a two-year high and risks climbing further, according to analysts, as bad weather crimps the availability of Capesize vessels just as exporters ramp up delivery. The Baltic Dry Index rose 5.5% to 3,331 points on Wednesday in London, touching the highest since December 2023 ,  driven largely by a rise in the constituent Capesize rate which surged over 8%. Bad weather has hit the Pacific at a time of strong demand in both that ocean and the Atlantic.   “We see the current surge as something of a perfect storm, with vessel supply tightening and demand firing in both basins at the same time,” broker Thurlestone Shipping wrote in a note. The broader BDI gauge tracks freight rates for Capesize — giant vessels that are seen as the workhorses of the market — as well as Panamaxes and Supramaxes, all ships transporting raw materials such as iron ore, coal and grain. The index has rallied 77% so far this year as the war in the Middle East disrupted shipping. Shares in dry-bulk carriers have also surged this year, outpacing even the stock of tanker owners as Middle East traffic disruptions upend the wider maritime sector. Shipping and port operations along the Pacific Ocean have been battered by a series of typhoons. At the same time, Australian exporters are ramping up shipments as maintenance winds down, while upgrades to transshipment operations are boosting ore flows from Guinea, home to the giant Simandou iron ore deposit.  The result is that exporters have been left scrambling to secure vessels for longer haul voyages. “The market enters the latter part of the third quarter with a relatively high freight-rate floor just as Pacific typhoon activity typically becomes more disruptive to port operations,” said Wilson Wirawan, head of dry bulk shipping research at BRS Shipbrokers, based in Singapore.  “Resulting delays and vessel inefficiencies, if any, could further tighten effective tonnage availability, adding another layer of support to an already firm Capesize market.” Iron ore futures rose 1.5% to $98.75 a ton in Singapore as of 11:22 a.m. local time. © 2026 Bloomberg L.P. Tags: capesize rates dry bulk dry bulk shipping Subscribe for Daily Maritime Insights Sign up for gCaptain’s newsletter and never miss an update — trusted by our 107,336 members Prev Back to Main Next Stay Informed. Stay Connected. Get The Daily Insights That Power Maritime Professionals Worldwide Essential maritime and offshore news, insights, and updates delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members Have a news tip? Let us know. Stay Ahead with Our Weekly ‘Dispatch’ Email Dive into a sea of curated content with our weekly ‘Dispatch’ email. Your personal maritime briefing awaits! Sign Up Sign In Related Articles News Black Sea Tensions Lead Grain Buyers to Tap Baltic States Baltic grain exporters are seeing a boost in demand as blocked supplies from the Black Sea region are spurring buyers to seek alternative sources. August 27, 2026 Total Views: 613 News Ocean Winner Sinking Leaves 22 Seafarers Missing in Bay of Bengal Twenty-two seafarers remain missing after the Panama-flagged bulk carrier Ocean Winner sank in the Bay of Bengal, triggering a major search and rescue operation involving the Indian Coast Guard and passing merchant... August 26, 2026 Total Views: 2422 News Bulk Carrier Losses Keep Falling, But INTERCARGO Warns New Risks Are Emerging The long-term safety record for bulk carriers continues to improve, but the industry faces an increasingly complex risk environment that extends beyond traditional operational hazards, according to INTERCARGO’s latest casualty... July 7, 2026 Total Views: 982 Get The Industry’s Go-To News Subscribe to gCaptain Daily and stay informed with the latest global maritime and offshore news — just like 107,336 professionals Secure Your Spot on the gCaptain Crew Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members The Go-To Source for your Daily Maritime and Offshore News Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members. Information About Careers Advertise with gCaptain Privacy Policy Contacts For general inquiries and to contact us, please email: [email protected] To submit a story idea or contact our editors, please email: [email protected] For advertising opportunities contact Email: [email protected] Phone: +1.805.704.2536. x Your Gateway to the Maritime World! Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up 

##### mol | https://gcaptain.com/japans-mitsui-osk-sees-risk-to-hormuz-shipping-through-year-end/
Total Views: 677 September 3, 2026 By Kanoko Matsuyama, Tsuyoshi Inajima and Yusuke Maekawa (Bloomberg) –The head of Japanese shipping company Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd. expects disruption in the Strait of Hormuz to last longer than previously assumed, with recent attacks elevating the risk for tankers attempting to move oil through the waterway. “Given the current situation, it’s difficult to see operations resuming in any form by the end of the year,” Chief Executive Officer Jotaro Tamura said in an interview. “The situation continues to be well beyond the level of risk we can accept.” Clashes between the US and Iran over control of Hormuz have  intensified  after a period of relative calm, raising the threat for vessels carrying Middle Eastern crude to global markets. After managing to move their ships out of the Gulf after the war began, risk-averse Japanese shipowners have largely avoided the region for safety reasons. The disruption has forced Japan’s oil refiners – which before the war sourced more than 90% of their crude from the Middle East – to seek alternative supplies and routes, including the US, while drawing from the nation’s stockpiles to stave off shortages and price spikes. Mitsui OSK had previously assumed a phased resumption of Hormuz transit from October, followed by a return to normal operations from January. That timeline now appears likely to slip, Tamura said. The resumption of crossings “is likely to be pushed back,” he said, “but at this stage, it’s difficult to say by how much.” Read More:  US-Iran Clashes Escalate as Fears Grow of Extended Conflict While Japanese tankers have stayed away, other vessels have transited Hormuz in recent months, sometimes switching off their transponders to avoid detection. As of last week, about 6 million to 8 million barrels of crude were  crossing  the strait every day, according to oil traders’ estimates, although that was before the latest strikes. For Mitsui OSK to resume regular transits, Tamura said the company would need confidence that safe passage could be sustained across multiple voyages, rather than assessing the risk on a vessel-by-vessel, day-by-day basis. Sailing with transponders turned off shouldn’t become the norm, he added, because that would mean ships were operating on the assumption that an attack could occur. On a more positive note, as Japanese refiners diversify crude supplies, new routes are opening up for the nation’s shipping lines. Tamura said Mitsui OSK was seeing stronger demand from the US and West Africa, echoing comments from the chief executive officer of rival Nippon Yusen KK, Takaya Soga, who told Bloomberg News last month that the company was in  talks with refiners  to help import oil from Latin America and Africa. © 2026 Bloomberg L.P. Tags: Hormuz iran Japan MOL strait of hormuz tankers Subscribe for Daily Maritime Insights Sign up for gCaptain’s newsletter and never miss an update — trusted by our 107,336 members Prev Back to Main Next Stay Informed. Stay Connected. Get The Daily Insights That Power Maritime Professionals Worldwide Essential maritime and offshore news, insights, and updates delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members Have a news tip? Let us know. Stay Ahead with Our Weekly ‘Dispatch’ Email Dive into a sea of curated content with our weekly ‘Dispatch’ email. Your personal maritime briefing awaits! Sign Up Sign In Related Articles Shipping Hormuz Traffic Dips To Lowest Since May After US, Iranian Strikes On Ships By Florence Tan SINGAPORE, Sept 7 (Reuters) – An average of 10 commodity ships transited the Strait of Hormuz per day over the past 10 days, the lowest since May, according to shipping data... 15 hours ago Total Views: 730 Shipping Gulf Shipping Traffic Via Hormuz Keeps Below 10-day Average, Data Shows Four commodity vessels transited the key waterway of the Strait of Hormuz on Thursday, down from nine a day earlier and well below the 10-day average tally of about 15, preliminary shipping data showed. September 4, 2026 Total Views: 809 News War Risk Claims Top $2 Billion as Shipping Attacks Spread Beyond Hormuz By Lori-Ann LaRocco – The payout to vessel owners damaged in the Iran War is the second-biggest payout for marine underwriters in more than a decade, according to maritime insurance... September 3, 2026 Total Views: 1292 Get The Industry’s Go-To News Subscribe to gCaptain Daily and stay informed with the latest global maritime and offshore news — just like 107,336 professionals Secure Your Spot on the gCaptain Crew Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members The Go-To Source for your Daily Maritime and Offshore News Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members. Information About Careers Advertise with gCaptain Privacy Policy Contacts For general inquiries and to contact us, please email: [email protected] To submit a story idea or contact our editors, please email: [email protected] For advertising opportunities contact Email: [email protected] Phone: +1.805.704.2536. x Your Gateway to the Maritime World! Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up 
