# Jake link 2026-09-07 ~11:13am PT
https://gcaptain.com/hormuz-traffic-dips-to-lowest-since-may-after-us-iranian-strikes-on-ships/

 Hormuz Traffic Dips To Lowest Since May After US, Iranian Strikes On Ships Advertise Forum Jobs Subscribe Join The Club Video Shipping Offshore Defense Ports Shipbuilding Accidents Cruise Ships × Advertise Forum Jobs Subscribe Grab a Seat at the Captain’s Table Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up Sign In Don’t Miss Your Daily Briefing for the Maritime Industry Join the leading maritime news network — trusted by our 107,336 members A file image from March 2, 2024, shows the Chinese-flagged VLCC supertanker Cosnew Lake, which exited the Red Sea via the Bab el-Mandeb Strait on July 23, 2026. VLADIMIR TONIC/Handout via REUTERS Hormuz Traffic Dips To Lowest Since May After US, Iranian Strikes On Ships Reuters Total Views: 902 September 6, 2026 By Florence Tan SINGAPORE, Sept 7 (Reuters) – An average of 10 commodity ships transited the Strait of Hormuz per day over the past 10 days, the lowest since May, according to shipping data on Monday, after U.S. and Iranian strikes on tankers. The 10-day moving average was 10 on Sunday, down from more than 15 on Friday and nearly 13 on Saturday, data from analytics firm Kpler found.  Only two vessels passed through the strait on Saturday while six went through on Sunday, mostly using the Iranian route.  U.S. forces struck three Iranian oil tankers on Saturday, U.S. Central Command said, including one off Kharg Island, Iran’s key oil export hub, following attacks by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps on U.S. warships in the region. In retaliation, the IRGC navy said on Saturday it targeted three oil tankers traveling unauthorized routes in the strait as well as three additional U.S. vessels in other areas. The three Iranian tankers were Downy, Stark I and Kylo, also known as Noxen, maritime intelligence firm Marisks said in a note. The Saturday attacks represented a “major escalation in the maritime conflict,” Marisks said. “Commercial tankers are now being deliberately used as instruments of reciprocal economic pressure, substantially weakening the previous distinction between military confrontation and commercial shipping,” it added. “Risk is therefore assessed as extreme for Iranian/Iran-linked tonnage and materially elevated for U.S.-linked or U.S.-escorted shipping throughout the Strait of Hormuz and Gulf of Oman.” There have been 27 projectile strike incidents since July 6, resulting in damage to vessels operating in and around the Strait of Hormuz, the United Kingdom Maritime Trade Operations (UKMTO) said in its weekly report. JMIC Advisory Note Update 094 Released by UKMTO on behalf of the Joint Maritime Information Centre Click here to view the full advisory note ?? https://t.co/kZChxXqhoe #MaritimeSecurity #MarSec pic.twitter.com/INOZPtbujG — UKMTO Operations Centre (@UK_MTO) September 6, 2026 On Sunday, one very large crude carrier and three bulk carriers laden with metals, grains or oilseeds entered the strait, Kpler data showed. A tanker carrying refined products loaded from a Saudi port attempted to exit but was turned back, data from LSEG showed. There has been no VLCC exiting the strait since Wednesday, according to Kpler data. (Reporting by Florence Tan; Editing by Cynthia Osterman) (c) Copyright Thomson Reuters 2026. Tags: Iran conflict strait of hormuz Subscribe for Daily Maritime Insights Sign up for gCaptain’s newsletter and never miss an update — trusted by our 107,336 members Prev Back to Main Next Stay Informed. Stay Connected. Get The Daily Insights That Power Maritime Professionals Worldwide Essential maritime and offshore news, insights, and updates delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members Have a news tip? Let us know. Stay Ahead with Our Weekly ‘Dispatch’ Email Dive into a sea of curated content with our weekly ‘Dispatch’ email. Your personal maritime briefing awaits! Sign Up Sign In Related Articles Defense U.S. Destroys Iranian Tanker, Disables Two Others After Missile Attacks on Navy Warships U.S. forces struck three Iranian oil tankers on Saturday after Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps launched ballistic missiles at two U.S. Navy warships, marking another sharp escalation in the maritime... September 5, 2026 Total Views: 2076 Shipping Gulf Shipping Traffic Via Hormuz Keeps Below 10-day Average, Data Shows Four commodity vessels transited the key waterway of the Strait of Hormuz on Thursday, down from nine a day earlier and well below the 10-day average tally of about 15, preliminary shipping data showed. September 4, 2026 Total Views: 823 News War Risk Claims Top $2 Billion as Shipping Attacks Spread Beyond Hormuz By Lori-Ann LaRocco – The payout to vessel owners damaged in the Iran War is the second-biggest payout for marine underwriters in more than a decade, according to maritime insurance... September 3, 2026 Total Views: 1309 Get The Industry’s Go-To News Subscribe to gCaptain Daily and stay informed with the latest global maritime and offshore news — just like 107,336 professionals Secure Your Spot on the gCaptain Crew Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered daily straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members The Go-To Source for your Daily Maritime and Offshore News Stay informed with the latest maritime and offshore news, delivered straight to your inbox — trusted by our 107,336 members. Information About Careers Advertise with gCaptain Privacy Policy Contacts For general inquiries and to contact us, please email: [email protected] To submit a story idea or contact our editors, please email: [email protected] For advertising opportunities contact Email: [email protected] Phone: +1.805.704.2536. x Your Gateway to the Maritime World! Essential news coupled with the finest maritime content sourced from across the globe. Sign Up 