                                                                                         ADD US ON GOOGLE                            ×
                                                                                         Choose ZeroHedge as a preferred
                                                                                         source of news




Chinese Oil Demand Unexpectedly Soars, Sending Shanghai Crude Above $100,
With Brent Prices Set To Follow

       BY TYLER DURDEN                                                                                      MONDAY, SEP 07, 2026 - 04:04 PM



One of the reasons why the price of oil failed to soar during the "actively
kinetic" phase of the Iran war, when shipments through Hormuz were
eﬀectively halted and the world faced a shortage of about 10-15mmb/d,
is that Chinese oil demand plunged. Whether due to a sharp slowdown
in the economy (which after the sudden "recap" of China's banks
appears very likely) or due to an aggressive drain of China's strategic
reserve, the reality is that, as discussed here extensively, both Chinese
oil imports...




                                         This Flattering Draped Cowl
                                         Sweater Feels Like A Hug & Fits…
                                         Every   Shape
                                         bluevofsn

... and local product refining...




... cratered for much of 2026, signaling that Chinese oil demand has
indeed plunged.
But no more: one of the telltale signs of the period of weak Chinese
demand was the collapse in the Brent-Shanghai crude spread, which
traded as negative as -$20 in late April. However, in the past few weeks,
we have seen a dramatic jump in Shanghai crude, which is trading just
shy of the highest level hit since the Iran war, well above $100. More
importantly, it now trading a sizable premium to Brent, indicating that the
period of weak Chinese demand is finally over.




                                                           Learn more




And sure enough, as Bloomberg report, China - the world's largest oil
importer - is now aggressively bidding up crude prices across Africa,
Canada, and Latin American markets as disruptions in the Hormuz
chokepoint and limited Iranian supplies intensify competition
for alternatives. The scramble is squeezing smaller Chinese refineries
that once relied on heavily discounted Iranian barrels; the same refineries
simply shut down a few months ago when there was not enough
domestic demand.
But now, something has finally flipped, and demand for oil is suddenly
soaring, sending Shanghai crude above $100 and threatening to push
Brent prices - earlier today rising above $97 for the first time in over a
month - also above $100 for the first time since May.
The renewed Chinese buying marks a major shift from a period when
subdued Chinese buying helped restrain crude oil prices. With Iranian
exports almost entirely shut oﬀ by the US blockade and fighting flaring
again, as seen Monday when Saudi Aramco's Jizan oil facilities were
reportedly hit, the race to find replacement supplies around the world is
becoming an increasingly expensive task for the Chinese.
Here is what some traders who spoke with Bloomberg had to say:
    The turnaround is producing spikes in the price of various grades.
    Congo's Djeno crude was oﬀered to Chinese buyers at premiums
    of as high as $20 a barrel over ICE Brent this week, up from
    around $15 a couple of weeks ago, according to traders who
    asked not to be named as they're not authorized to speak to the
    media.




                                         Men's shoes made in the USA -
                                         Comfortable for your everyday life
                                         TEORLAND

Chinese buyers are also buying tanker loads of crude from Canada,
Brazil, and Argentina, while stronger demand has lifted prices for
Russia's ESPO crude. Asian buyers are also pushing Dubai crude futures
toward $100 per barrel.
While Chinese seaborne crude imports are still below prewar levels and
are currently trending toward 10 million barrels per day, the Shanghai
crude spread indicates that imports are aggressively rising, and that the
race for alternative supplies may still intensify.




Bloomberg pointed out that the rebound in crude imports comes as
refinery math improves and inventories are being rebuilt in China.
Improved processing margins, the resumption of fuel exports, and
commercial restocking are encouraging refiners to ramp up purchases,
according to GL Consulting founder Liao Na.
Smaller independent refiners, known as teapots, face the greatest
pressure because their traditional sourcing channels for Iranian and
Venezuelan crude have eroded this year as access to those supplies has
collapsed amid the Trump administration's push to rewire global energy
markets.




Liao said, "China's robust buying lately is largely driven by refiners
taking advantage of decent margins," adding, "Active restocking by
commercial players has also helped, but it’s not necessarily a sign of
stronger underlying demand that’s supporting the recovery."
Separately, Goldman Sachs energy expert Daan Struyven expects
China's ability to adjust purchases to prices to help moderate any spikes
in crude prices, although he also warned that Brent may rally to as
much as $120 a barrel if attacks on shipping in the Middle East
increase.
“Events over the last few days do suggest that the risk of shipping
disruptions broadening and intensifying is an important one,” Daan
Struyven, co-head of global commodities research, said in an interview
on Bloomberg TV.




Goldman's preferred way to trade another oil spike is buy going
long natural gas and diesel as a way to capture gains: “While we see
meaningful upside to crude oil prices, we do recommend to investors to
hedge geopolitical risks by going long in global natural gas and refined-
oil products,” Struyven said, referring to bets on gains. “The supply
shocks are bigger than in the crude market.”


           Give what                                                                 DONATE NOW




                                                                                                                   3,479          22




 WANT TO KNOW MORE?




 China's Oil Scramble Sends African,        Iran To Draw New "Restricted Zone" In      The Copper Chart Causing Alarm
 Canadian, Latin American Crude Prices      Hormuz As Saudi Aramco Facility Hit Again,
 Soaring                                    Oil Climbs




    NEVER MISS THE NEWS
                                                                   ZEROHEDGE DIRECTLY TO YOUR INBOX
                                                                   Receive a daily recap featuring a curated list of must-
     THAT MATTERS MOST                                             read stories.

                                                                    Email                                             Subscribe




                   We're sorry, we were unable to load comments at this time. Please try again later.




                  DISCRIMINATION NOTICE            PRIVACY POLICY          DISCLOSURE          DISCLAIMER
                         PRIVACY AND COOKIE SETTINGS               ADVERTISE WITH ZEROHEDGE
                                                                                                                         
                    COPYRIGHT ©2009-2026 ZEROHEDGE.COM/ABC MEDIA, LTD
