Given the high stress and high alert in bond markets, which has pushed global 10Y yields to the highest level since 2022 and with Europe finding itself on the verge of another sovereign debt crisis ...
 ... the main focus in the week ahead will be on central banks, with the minutes from the September FOMC meeting on Wednesday and the ECB’s account of its latest meeting on Thursday. 
 There is also a busy run of central-bank speakers, while the data calendar includes US ISM services today and the University of Michigan survey on Friday, a run of German activity data through the week, and Japanese wages on Wednesday.  
 In the US, the week begins in the shadow of Friday’s important September employment report. Headline payrolls rose just +29k, compared with +133k expected, while private payrolls increased +46k versus +127k expected. There were also 60k of downward revisions to headline payrolls over the previous two months, and average hourly earnings rose only +0.1% against +0.3% expected. Nevertheless, DB's US economists think the details still point to a broadly stable labor market. The unemployment rate edged up only slightly to 4.175% from 4.141%, the broader U-6 rate fell a tenth to 7.6%, and participation rose two-tenths to 61.8%, its highest since May last year. Prime-age participation and the employment-to-population ratio also recovered further after their unusually large June declines. So although the headline payroll number was disappointing, the wider labor-market picture remains relatively resilient, particularly alongside recent ADP and jobless-claims readings, and DB's economists continue to expect two further 25bp Fed hikes over the next couple of quarters. The market is pricing in another 86bps over the next 12 months, down from 100bps early last week but up from 70bps just after the payroll release. So lots of vol on Friday in rates and fixed income as we'll see in the review of the week at the end.  
 The highly unsettled bond market makes the incoming US data and Fed communication particularly relevant. The first key release is the September ISM services index today, where DB economists expect the headline gauge to rise to 55.9 from 55.4 in August (it rose 55.8). Tomorrow brings the August trade balance, while Wednesday’s September FOMC minutes should provide more color on the near-term policy outlook .
 Since the meeting, Fed communication has broadly reinforced the quarterly pace of rate hikes implied by the September SEP. Vice Chair Jefferson and New York Fed President Williams have both indicated a preference to take some time to assess incoming data before deciding on the next move, but several officials have continued to argue for additional tightening. So the minutes will be worth watching for how the broader Committee is framing the current tightening cycle and for its discussion of the neutral rate, where estimates shifted higher in the September SEP. 
 The rest of the US calendar is lighter. Thursday brings initial jobless claims and August wholesale trade sales, before attention turns to the preliminary October University of Michigan survey on Friday. Economists expect consumer sentiment to dip to 47.7, versus 48.1 in September. The survey may attract some extra attention with the November 3 midterm elections approaching. More broadly, DB's US economists currently estimate Q3 real GDP growth at 3.3% annualized , and this week’s activity data will help refine that estimate.
 Moving to Europe, the ECB publishes the minutes of its September meeting on Thursday, alongside a packed speaker calendar. It' ll be interesting to see whether the French situation gets prominent mentions. Germany has a particularly busy run of activity data, with August factory orders tomorrow, industrial production on Wednesday and the trade balance on Thursday. France releases August industrial production tomorrow, while Italy follows on Friday. Sweden publishes September CPI on Wednesday and Norway on Friday.
 In the UK, the BoE releases its Bank Liabilities and Credit Conditions surveys on Thursday, when Governor Bailey is also due to speak.
In Asia, Japan is the main focus. August labour cash earnings are released on Wednesday, with markets expecting same-sample total cash earnings growth to accelerate to 3.6% year-on-year from 2.9% in July. The September Economy Watchers survey follows on Thursday and August household spending on Friday. China’s September foreign-exchange reserves are also due on Wednesday.
 Courtesy of DB, here is a day-by-day calendar of events 
 Monday October 5 
 Data: US September ISM services, UK September new car registrations, official reserves changes, Japan September consumer confidence index, Italy September services PMI, Q2 deficit to GDP, Eurozone August PPI, Canada September services PMI
 Central banks: ECB's Nagel, Lane, Schnabel, Escriva, Kocher and Buch speak
 Tuesday October 6 
 Data : US August trade balance, UK September construction PMI, Germany August factory orders, September construction PMI, France August industrial production, budget balance, Eurozone August retail sales, Canada August international merchandise trade
 Central banks: Fed's Williams speaks, ECB's Zigman and Cipollone speak, BoJ's Ueda speaks, BoE’s Mann speaks
 Auctions: US 3-yr Notes ($58bn)
 Wednesday October 7 
 Data: US September NY Fed 1-yr inflation expectations, August consumer credit, China September foreign reserves, Japan August laborcash earnings, leading index, coincident index, Germany August industrial production, France August current account balance, trade balance, Sweden September CPI
 Central banks: FOMC minutes, Fed's Logan speaks, ECB's Cipollone and Vujcic speak
 Earnings: Applied Digital
 Auctions: US 10-yr Notes (reopening, $39bn)
 Thursday October 8 
 Data : US August wholesale trade sales, initial jobless claims, UK September RICS house price balance, Japan September Economy Watchers survey, August BoP current account balance, BoP trade balance, Germany August trade balance
 Central banks: ECB’s account of September meeting, Fed's Musalem speaks, ECB's Zigman and Lane speak, BoE's Bailey, Greene and Lombardelli speak, BoE’s bank liabilities and credit conditions surveys
 Earnings: PepsiCo, Fast Retailing, Tesco
 Auctions: US 30-yr Bond (reopening, $22bn)
 Friday October 9 
 Data: US October University of Michigan survey, Japan August household spending, September machine tool orders, Italy August industrial production, Canada September labour force survey, Sweden August GDP indicator, Norway September CPI
 Central banks: ECB's Wunsch, Cipollone and Schnabel speak
 Earnings: Delta Air Lines
 Looking at just the US, Goldman writes that the key economic data release this week is the trade balance report on Tuesday. The minutes to the September FOMC meeting will be released on Wednesday. There are several speaking engagements with Fed officials scheduled this week.  
 Monday, October 5  
 09:45 AM S&P Global US services PMI, September final (consensus 58.7, last 58.7) 
 10:00 AM ISM services index, September (GS 55.4, consensus 55.0, last 55.4):  We estimate that the ISM services index was unchanged at 55.4 in September, reflecting sequential improvement in our non-manufacturing survey tracker (+1.0pt to 54.1), offset by downward pressure from convergence toward the level implied by other services surveys (which the ISM index is above).
 Tuesday, October 6  
 08:30 AM Trade balance, August (GS -$100.0bn, consensus -$102.0bn, last -$88.6bn) 
 09:05 AM New York Fed President Williams (FOMC voter) speaks:  New York Fed President John Williams will moderate a discussion with Caryn Seidman Becker, Chair and CEO of CLEAR. On September 29, Williams said, "with the policy action we took at our September meeting, there is no need for urgency, and we have time to gather more information."
 10:45 AM Fed Vice Chair for Supervision Bowman speaks:  Fed Vice Chair for Supervision Michelle Bowman will speak on modernizing regulation and supervision at the Community Banking Research Conference at the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. Speech text and Q&A are expected. On October 1, Bowman said, "After the Committee's action in September, what we need to have is a better understanding about the underlying trends in the economy and how financial conditions are evolving going forward. So, I don't currently see an urgent need for further action."
 01:15 PM Kansas City Fed President Schmid (FOMC non-voter) speaks:  Kansas City Fed President Jeffrey Schmid will participate in a fireside chat on monetary policy and rural development at the Enid Regional Development Alliance luncheon. On October 1, Schmid said, "We have a very simple and crisp mandate, and that's stable prices and full employment, and we just haven't fulfilled our promise on the inflation side."
 07:00 PM Dallas Fed President Logan (FOMC voter) speaks:  Dallas Fed President Lorie Logan will moderate a Q&A with former Bank of Mexico Governor Agustin Carstens. On October 1, Logan characterized the hike at the September meeting as "an important first step" in tightening policy but added, "Still, I currently estimate the target range needs to rise an additional 50 basis points or more to appropriately balance the outlook and risks for our dual mandate goals."
 Wednesday, October 7  
 02:00 PM FOMC meeting minutes, September 15-16 meeting:  The September FOMC meeting was more hawkish than we expected. The dots showed a 16-2 majority projected at least one more hike this year, the median funds rate projection remained quite elevated through 2029, and the median neutral rate dot rose from 3.06% to 3.25%. The median SEP forecast showed substantially higher core PCE inflation in 2026 at 3.4% Q4/Q4 (vs. our current forecast of 3.0%) than now looks likely after last week's methodological revisions. We will look for details in the minutes on the assumptions underlying participants’ economic forecasts and views of the balance of risks at the time. 
 Thursday, October 8  
 04:30 AM Fed Governor Waller speaks;  Fed Governor Christopher Waller will speak at the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkiye's İstanbul Economic Forum on the economic outlook. Speech text and Q&A are expected. 
 08:30 AM Initial jobless claims, week ended October 3 (GS 200k, consensus 200k, last 197k);  Continuing jobless claims, week ended September 26 (consensus 1,695k, last 1,701k)
 10:00 AM Wholesale inventories, August final (consensus +0.7%, last +0.7%)  
 01:40 PM St. Louis Fed President Musalem (FOMC non-voter) speaks;  St. Louis Fed President Alberto Musalem will speak on the US economy and monetary policy at a Bloomberg event. Q&A is expected. On September 21, Musalem said, "I think it's crucial that policy puts a meaningful restraint on inflation," but added that "earlier and incremental policy firming is better and less disruptive than later and larger and potentially more abrupt policy action."
 Friday, October 9  
 10:00 AM University of Michigan consumer sentiment, October preliminary (GS 47.0, consensus 47.7, last 48.1);  University of Michigan 5-10-year inflation expectations, October preliminary (GS 3.4%, last 3.4%)
 04:00 PM Boston Fed President Collins (FOMC non-voter) speaks;  Boston Fed President Susan Collins will give brief remarks at a conference at the University of Michigan's Ford School of Public Policy. Speech text is expected. On September 22, President Collins said that she supported the decision to raise the fed funds rate at the September FOMC meeting, adding that “a somewhat more restrictive fed funds rate will help ensure that inflation durably returns to target.”
 Source: DB, Goldman