Oil Markets


Trump Wants Big Oil to Build More
Refineries. That’s a Tough Sell.
Owning an oil refinery is a profitable proposition in the U.S. Building a new one? Not so
much.

By Collin Eaton
UTC-04:00

President Trump urged a gathering of oil executives at the White House on Tuesday to build
more refineries capable of pumping out fuel, part of his bid to bring down gasoline prices before
the November midterms.

That’s a tough argument to make. Owning an oil refinery is a profitable proposition in the U.S.
right now. Building a new one? Not so much.

The paradox helps explain why U.S. refinery operators that are making record profits in the
midst of historic fuel supply disruptions in the Middle East, Russia and China have no plans to
expand their fleet.

Put simply, the oil companies don’t expect the boom times to last.

At the meeting, the president and oil executives discussed other ways to expand the nation’s
refining capacity, including cutting regulations, speeding up the permitting process and making
additional investments.

“The President made clear that he wants lower gas prices at the pump for Americans. The
refiners and distributors shared that goal and commitment,” a U.S. official said.

The White House also said Trump’s surprise deal to take a direct stake in a large swath of
Venezuela’s oil reserves means the country needs more refining capacity to absorb barrels as
production comes online.

Among those gathered were executives from Chevron, Valero Energy, Marathon Petroleum and
PBF Energy, among others. ExxonMobil, the nation’s third-largest refiner, didn’t send a
representative.
Some companies were initially wary of attending, given Trump’s recent attacks on the industry
for not cutting gasoline prices more quickly. Americans paid about $4.10 a gallon on average at
the pump Tuesday, according to AAA, up from $2.98 before the start of the conflict in Iran.

The problem: Much of what is driving fuel prices higher is beyond the control of both the
president and what he has called his favorite industry.

Six months into the war, the supply crunch for diesel, jet fuel and gasoline has overtaken
upheaval in the crude-oil market as the energy industry’s primary concern.

To keep up with demand, U.S. refineries have been running at over 97% of their collective
capacity in recent weeks, near their highest rate in about eight years, according to the Energy
Information Administration.

“The utilization that we’ve seen can’t be sustained for the long term,” Darren Woods, the chief
executive of Exxon, told investors in late July. “I think this refining challenge is going to be with
the world for a while.”

Some companies are putting off scheduled maintenance to take advantage of lofty margins for
diesel and other fuels. What’s known as the crack spread—the difference refiners can pocket
buying crude and selling fuel—recently hit a record above $100 a barrel for diesel.

That has helped pad the industry’s bottom line. The top six American energy companies that turn
oil into refined products made a combined $24.7 billion on fuel-making in the second quarter,
nearly five times as much as a year earlier.

But building new refineries isn’t economic—it would require an investment of several billion
dollars and three to five years of construction. The industry expects the energy market to have
found its footing long before then.

Instead, companies have focused on expanding and modernizing existing facilities.

“Nobody’s going to go out and make a huge multibillion-dollar investment based on three
months of record margins,” said Robert Campbell, an analyst at Energy Aspects in New York.
“You really think there’s going to be another situation where Russia’s being attacked, and there’s
a crisis in the Middle East, and China has slowly stopped exporting products?”

America has been closing refineries for decades—it has 128 fewer than it did in 1982. The
newest was completed in 1977; roughly a quarter were built more than a century ago.

The obstacles to building new ones are formidable. For one thing, acquiring the myriad permits
needed from federal, state and local governments would be a major undertaking. The oil industry
has tried for years to convince Congress to overhaul the permitting process to clear the way for
pipelines and other energy infrastructure.
Gasoline demand, meanwhile, is expected to decline over the long term as drivers buy more
electric vehicles and engines become more efficient.

“Who wants to invest in something that, by the time you build it, the demand is down?” said
John Auers, marketing director of refined fuels at oil-and-gas data analytics firm Novi Labs.

Auers estimates oil companies have room to add 400,000 barrels a day of refining capacity by
expanding their facilities in Texas, Louisiana and other Gulf Coast states over the next 20 years.
That is roughly equivalent to the capacity of one large refinery.

Analysts are skeptical that new projects can get off the ground.

Trump said in March that a startup called America First Refining would open the first new U.S.
oil refinery in 50 years in Brownsville, Texas. The $300 billion deal was meant to bring jobs and
economic growth to South Texas.

Yet the region lacks infrastructure to get sufficient oil to a refinery, and financing such a project
would be a challenge, as would securing permits.

Meanwhile, big oil companies are spending hundreds of millions of dollars to shift refinery
production from gasoline—the fuel most affected by the rise of EVs—to diesel, petrochemicals
and lubricants.

Exxon is expected to spend about $2 billion to upgrade its Baytown, Texas, refinery to make
more diesel and lubricant base stocks—and less gasoline—starting in 2028. Chevron has a
similar, smaller project at its Pascagoula refinery in Mississippi.

Chevron Chief Executive Mike Wirth has suggested his company would continue pivoting
toward oil production versus refining over the long term.

“I love our refining business,” he told investors last year. “I don’t want to say that we would
never do something in refining because if it were the right opportunity, we could. But we’ve long
had a view that we want to be a more upstream-weighted company.”

Write to Collin Eaton at collin.eaton@wsj.com
