# WSJ full text (Jake's PDF, saved 10/9 6:57pm PT; extracted with pypdf). Personal-use copy; kept in the private evidence locker only.

This copy is for your personal, non-commercial use only. Distribution and use of this material are governed by our Subscriber Agreement and by
copyright law. For non-personal use or to order multiple copies, please contact Dow Jones Reprints at 1-800-843-0008 or visit www.djreprints.com.
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9
TECHNOLOGY ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE
The Desperate Hunt for AI Computing Power Is
Upending Silicon V alley
Bitter rivals are forming alliances and executives are having to personally intervene
over the scramble for resources to fuel the AI boom
By Kate Clark, Erin Woo, Keach Hagey and Meghan Bobrowsky
Oct. 9, 2026 at 9:00 pm ET
TERMS & CONDITIONS FOR WSJ, GETTY IMAGES
Google really wanted pioneering AI researcher Noam Shazeer back. 
The longtime employee left to start his own company but in 2024, Google paid
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 1 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

$2.7 billion for him to return to work on cutting-edge projects, including its most
powerful AI technology, Gemini.
Even that, though, couldn’t ensure that Shazeer got the computing resources he
wanted. 
Less than two years later, he sent a note to one of his teams saying that Google
had cut what was allocated to them in favor of another project. Shortly
thereafter, Shazeer left for rival OpenAI.
Compute, the industry shorthand for computing power, is the lifeblood of the AI
boom, and it’s in short supply. Now ﬁghts over how to get more of it—and what
projects to give priority to—are sending a powerful industry scrambling. Bitter
rivals are forming new alliances, such as Elon Musk and Dario Amodei, whose
companies worked together to secure computing power. Venture-capital ﬁrms
are touting access to AI chips to woo startups. And power struggles are more
frequent as companies compete in a worldwide treasure hunt for the tech
industry’s most coveted resource.
“There’s a big gold rush happening at the moment,” said Evan Conrad, chief
executive oﬃcer of San Francisco Compute. “It’s hard to fully comprehend the
scale.”
Conrad’s company vets data centers and then rents their computing power to AI
companies that range from the largest players like Nvidia to small startups like
Standard Intelligence. Its chief technology oﬃcer, Eric Park, travels the globe in
search of computing resources hiding where few else think to look.
In the spring, it was far-ﬂung corners of rural America, where one promising
new data center turned out to be AI servers humming inside what appeared to
be a converted chicken coop. Then Manila in monsoon season, where Park’s car
stalled in ﬂoodwater and he and his colleagues waded to safety, bags held over
their heads. Eventually, a passing truck shuttled him to the airport, where he
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 2 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

bought a new pair of shoes and boarded a ﬂight to Taipei—to meet with a
company building servers for the AI boom.
Eric Park traveling on foot through a monsoon in Manila in search of computing resources. ERIC PARK
Even a little cluster of available AI chips can be helpful to startups trying to train
or ﬁne-tune smaller AI models.
SF Compute’s business has grown as companies are increasingly beholden to the
yearslong timelines of data-center build-outs. There’s a race to build more data
centers to get more capacity online fast, but construction is stymied by
regulation and political backlash. 
Established suppliers of computing power are requiring customers to sign
multiyear contracts with heftier down payments. Startups are increasingly
inking deals with unreliable providers out of desperation, like ones lacking
proper security or weaker infrastructure.
While splashy announcements have promised enormous amounts of new
computing power coming soon, far less is actually available today, said Nick
Frosst, co-founder of Canadian AI startup Cohere. 
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 3 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

“Lots of things have been announced and then canceled,” said Frosst, whose
startup builds large language models and was valued at $6.8 billion last year. “Or
things that they said they’re going to build this big, but then they actually build
signiﬁcantly less.”
Arcee, an open-source AI startup, recently secured commitments for both
capital and computing capacity from an infrastructure partner, said CEO Mark
McQuade, but the deal collapsed when the ﬁrm’s data center was delayed.
“So much is up in the air with these things, especially when it comes to
compute,” said McQuade. “You take it with a grain of salt until it’s real.”
With so much demand, prices are going up. The hourly cost of renting
computing power from Nvidia H100 chips on a one-year contract has risen 60%
in the past year, according to SemiAnalysis, a data and consulting ﬁrm. Alphabet
 expects to make up to $200 billion this year in capital
expenditures, much of it going toward AI infrastructure.
Even the busiest AI executives are personally involving themselves in
negotiations over computing power.
In late March, Anthropic co-founder Tom Brown visited Elon Musk at rival AI
company xAI’s oﬃces in Hawthorne, Calif., to broker a deal to rent computing
power from Musk’s company, according to people familiar with the matter. The
explosive, unexpected success of Anthropic’s Claude Code had created a
computing crunch, contributing to frequent outages. 
In May, Anthropic stunned the industry when it announced an agreement with
Musk’s SpaceX to lease more than 300 megawatts of computing power—part of
a deal later revealed to be worth up to $45 billion in the coming years. Musk, who
had previously been publicly critical of Anthropic, posted on X that he was
“impressed” with members of Anthropic’s senior team, adding, “No one set oﬀ
my evil detector.”
GOOGL 0.97%
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 4 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei also spoke on the phone with Meta chief AI oﬃcer
Alexandr Wang earlier this year, attempting to source more computing capacity,
according to a person familiar with the matter. Meta debated whether to give
chips to Anthropic and ultimately decided not to for now, people familiar with
the matter said.
This is all in addition to the hundreds of billions of dollars in computing deals
Anthropic has announced over the past year.
Dario Amodei KEVIN DIETSCH/GETTY IMAGES
Inside Google’s Mountain View oﬃces, researchers are ﬁercely divided over
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 5 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

which projects deserve the company’s precious computing resources. Co-
founder Sergey Brin sometimes upends the formal compute allocation process,
reshuﬄing power around to projects that he thinks are important, according to
people familiar with the matter. Demis Hassabis, who co-founded and until
recently ran Google’s AI lab DeepMind and took a chairman role in August, has
expressed frustration about a lack of compute allocated toward long-term
research, according to people familiar with the matter.  
To hedge against the unpredictable nature of securing computing power, some
companies are signing contracts for more capacity than they need. In other
cases, startups have predicted surging demand for their AI products that never
materialized, forcing them to resell leftover capacity. 
This conﬂuence of factors coupled with rising wait times and skyrocketing costs
of compute are crippling a generation of newcomers trying to compete with
Google, Anthropic and OpenAI. 
Earlier in the AI boom, companies large and small could rent clusters of AI chips
from Amazon Web Services, for example, without having to make a multiyear
commitment or pay an astronomical upfront fee. 
As frontier AI labs soaked up the available compute, cloud providers moved to
require multiyear contracts with upfront costs often as high as 30%. Sometimes
they require startups to ﬁnd guarantors willing to cover their payments if they
are unable to.
“It’s like if you had an apartment, and you could rent month-to-month, and then
suddenly your landlord comes in and says, ‘Hey, I need you to sign a ﬁve-year
lease, and by the way, I need you to pay a year upfront,’” said SF Compute’s
Conrad.
The challenge isn’t only securing computing power but accurately predicting
how much ﬁrepower startups will need as they scale. 
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 6 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

One of Silicon Valley’s newest and fastest-growing startups, the viral AI
assistant Instinct, is dealing with steep competition from Meta and OpenAI,
which both recently debuted their own personal AI agents and have access to
substantially more capital and computing power. 
Instinct last month raised $1 billion at a $10 billion valuation in what was its
third capital raise this year, but even with oodles of cash, it may struggle to keep
pace with the likes of Meta, which owns and operates its own data centers.
Instinct CEO Noah Shinn said on a recent podcast episode of “Invest Like the
Best” that he has wrestled with whether to buy compute now to accommodate a
future where it has 100 million users, a risky move that could tank the company
if it doesn’t grow as expected. A representative for Instinct declined to
comment.
“If you overbuy, you could bankrupt the company by having too many lease
commitments, and if you underbuy, you could knock down your growth
trajectory and have a bunch of unhappy users,” said Zach Bratun-Glennon, a
general partner at Gradient Ventures, which invests in AI startups.
Some venture-capital ﬁrms are now reserving clusters themselves and renting
the capacity back to their startups, or oﬀering to guarantee contracts with
compute providers. Last year, one of Y Combinator’s startups needed 120
graphics processing units, or GPUs, for a two-month training run but couldn’t
ﬁnd a suitable contract, according to a person familiar with the accelerator. So Y
Combinator introduced a cluster dedicated to its startups, which it launched in
July.
At Radical Ventures, an AI-focused VC ﬁrm that recently backed a new AI lab co-
founded by Alphabet’s former chief scientist Jeﬀ Dean called Discovery Loop,
David Katz leads a team that tracks available GPUs, monitors pricing and
contract terms, and connects portfolio companies with compute providers.
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 7 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

David Katz RADICAL VENTURES
Over the past ﬁve years, Katz and his small team have negotiated billions in
compute deals, he said. Katz often ﬁnds himself texting directly with the leaders
of neoclouds—companies that purchase GPUs and other chips then lease them to
customers—to inquire about availability. He ﬂags potential investments to
compute partners before Radical has decided to invest to make sure capacity will
be there if they need it.
“It used to be, ‘Where am I getting my capital?’ Now it’s like, ‘Who’s going to
help me?’” said Katz. “There’s a lot of capital ﬂoating around for these
companies, but there’s not a lot of deep intelligence on how to build these
things.”
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 8 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Kate Clark covers startups, venture capital and artificial intelligence for The Wall Street Journal and is based
in New York. Her reporting examines venture investment, private market dealmaking and the power
dynamics between founders and investors in Silicon Valley and beyond. Previously, Kate was a senior…
reporter at Bloomberg News and a deputy bureau chief at The Information, where she led coverage of the
venture capital and startup industry. She began her journalism career at TechCrunch and has won multiple
Best in Business awards from the Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing, including for breaking
news coverage of OpenAI and for technology and markets reporting.
A Seattle native, she earned her degree from the University of Washington.Follow
Erin Woo is a reporter in The Wall Street Journal’s San Francisco bureau, where she covers Google. She
writes about how Google is reshaping itself and its products in the AI era, and how that reverberates across
our online and offline lives. Erin previously covered Google, AI, social media and venture capital at The…
Information. There, she was part of teams that won Best in Business awards from the Society for Advancing
Business Editing and Writing for reporting on OpenAI’s 2023 board coup and TikTok’s e"orts to court
conservatives in Washington. She started her career as a technology reporting fellow at The New York
Times.
Erin grew up in Atlanta, and graduated from Stanford University.Follow
Keach Hagey is a reporter at The Wall Street Journal covering the intersection of media, technology and
power. Her reporting explores how institutions and individuals wield influence in the new information
economy, with a current focus on artificial intelligence and OpenAI. She is the author of "The Optimist: Sam…
Altman, OpenAI, and the Race to Invent the Future" (W. W. Norton, 2024) and "The King of Content: Sumner
Redstone’s Battle for Viacom, CBS and Everlasting Control of His Media Empire" (Harper Business, 2018).She was part of the team that broke the Facebook Files, a series that won a George Polk Award for Business
Reporting, a Gerald Loeb Award for Beat Reporting and a Deadline Award for public service. Her
investigation into the inner workings of Google’s advertising-technology business won recognition from the
Society for Advancing Business Editing and Writing (Sabew).
Previously, she covered the television industry for the Journal, reporting on large media companies such as
21st Century Fox, Time Warner and Viacom. She led a team that won a Sabew award for its coverage of the
power struggle inside Viacom.
Before joining the Journal, Keach covered media for Politico, the National in Abu Dhabi, CBS News and the
Village Voice. She has a bachelor’s and a master’s in English literature from Stanford University. She lives in
Irvington, N.Y.
Follow
Meghan Bobrowsky is a reporter in The Wall Street Journal's San Francisco bureau, where she focuses on
Meta Platforms, artificial intelligence and social media. She writes about the company's massive data center
buildout, its social media platforms that have billions of users, and the AI products the company is…
developing to serve them.
Meghan is interested in how Meta is shaping the way we think, communicate and understand each other,
and how that might change in the AI era.
In 2026, she was part of a team that was named a Pulitzer finalist for coverage of Je"rey Epstein's powerful
network. And in 2022, she was part of another team that won a Best in Business award from the Society for
Advancing Business Editing and Writing for reporting on Meta's metaverse ambitions and missteps.
Meghan joined The Wall Street Journal in 2021 after graduating from Scripps College with a bachelor's
degree in politics.
Have a tip to share, or thoughts on something the company is doing? Get in touch with her from a non-work
device: meghan.bobrowsky@wsj.com or meghan.99 on signal.
Follow
Videos
https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 9 of 10

=== PAGE BREAK ===

https://www.wsj.com/tech/ai/ai-computing-power-demand-a63da9b9?mod=mhp 10/9/26, 6:57 PM
Page 10 of 10