The Fed Owns Over 50% Of All Bonds Maturing Between 10And 15 Years From NowBY TYLER DURDENSUNDAY, AUG 23, 2026 - 09:50 AMSubmitted by Peter Tchir of Academy SecuritiesTreasuries, Treaties, and TreatisesLets start with Treasuries. We laid out the approach we would take if we were Warsh lastweekend in Warshs Mark Antony Moment (a play on coming to bury ination, yethaving quite the opposite eﬀect, at least in terms of interest rate policy). After Bessents attempt to drive bond yields lower, we analyzed the possibilities inTreasury, Treasuries, The Fed, and Iran. The primary focus was on bonds, though we hadto toss in the possibility of Economic Armageddon for Iran.https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 1 of 8On Monday we discussed the Fed on Fox Business, but they picked up our theme onTuesday where Academy was the chyron on Varney & Co. Academy had the pleasure ofspending the rst half hour on Bloomberg TV on Thursday where we covered rates, Iran,energy, Global ProSec, and maybe even Situational Awareness (it all becomes a bit of ablur).Please read Thursdays report, in conjunction with last weekends report (or watch thevideo links) to get a sense of our outlook for Jackson Hole and what the Fed should (orneeds to do) to support Bessents eﬀorts.Today, we will add some additional information to reinforce our take on the power of aFederal Reserve Operation Twist.A Fed Operation Twist Is the Real DealAs of today, according to Bloomberg, the U.S. government has $7.5 trillion of T-billsoutstanding and $21.7 trillion of coupon debt outstanding.Bessent is buying at least $4 billion per operation. These operations are almostweekly, and while the threat of at least is interesting, jumping from $2 billion to $4billion wasnt enough to move markets for long. This is NOT QE. Gold rose, and thedollar fell, in response to Bessent. Likely overdone as this is more about re-arranging thedeck chairs, rather than creating money, which is what the debasement tradeseemed to buy into.https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 2 of 8Timeshare Resorts Forced ToRefund Owners - Is Yours On theList?SilverPennyIm not sure the Treasury Secretary should ever refer to any part of the US yieldcurve as illiquid. But Bessent did. Maybe he is remembering the good old days whennothing happened in August. I dont think this August was sleepy, nor particularly illiquid.Having said that, the Federal Reserve owns over 50% of all bonds maturing between10 and 15 years from now. That seems a long way from free markets. The Fedsholdings of longer-dated bonds are quite high (nearing 20%). It might be illiquid andpartially articial, but not in the way that Bessent implied.https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 3 of 8Your Senior Dog Is Covered WithFatty Lumps Here's WhatShrinks ThemK9immuneThe Fed owns almost half a trillion of bonds maturing within the next year.These are coupon bonds (not T-bills).The average coupon is 2.9%, so the Fed is bleeding money. They own, on an accrualcounting basis, these bonds at the yield they purchased them at (probably lower than2.9%) and fund at Fed Funds Eﬀective (3.63%). It explains why the Fed was helping toarticially reduce the decit with their payments to Congress, and now they areadding to our decit woes by bleeding carry.https://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 4 of 8Lets imagine the Fed selling that $426 billion, and buying the same notional amount ofbonds with 20+ years maturity. A small up-front loss (theyd have to monetize thepremium they paid for their bonds), but a very big pick-up in carry (5.25% or so on carryvs funding of 3.63%). It would also represent over 15% of the total amount of bondswith a maturity of 20 years or more (and over 20% of the oat the Fed doesnt alreadyown).If they decided to do the same with their bonds maturing in 1 to 3 years, theyd have abigger up-front loss, but more carry going forward, and would own over 50% of the debtoutstanding.I dont know what percentage of ownership constitutes cornering a market, butwed pretty much be there.From Warshs perspective (and that of all Fed members), Operation Twist does NOTcount as QE because it keeps notional amounts the same. If the admin wants to seethe long end of the yield curve go down, they need to stop playing with theamounts Bessent controls and go all in on a Fed-driven Operation Twist.Never Borrow from the Bank IfYou Own a Home, Do This InsteadComparisons.orgCant say Im a fan, but why not?In the coming days we should nd out if Bessent is on his own or if the Fed is throwingtheir weight behind his eﬀorts to control the longer end of the bond market.When Bond Traders Say Done They Mean Donehttps://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 5 of 8Whatever else you learned in school, or on the trading desk, the most important thingyou are taught is done means done. Youve committed your capital (or the rmscapital) and it might be a good or bad decision, but you are done. You are stuck withthat trade. Trying to back out, or change the terms, or beg for some accommodation,may work (exactly once), but your reputation is toast.I havent done a deep dive on any of the following (so I could be wrong), but it is diﬃcultnot to see a pattern emerging, that seems problematic down the road. There are manyfactors outside the public domain, and we all know negotiating deals is not easy,especially when the parties involved are very far apart on many of the issues. However,the concern is that the negotiating strategy we sometimes use could be misconstrued bycertain countries and work against us in some circumstances.Canada getting 50% tariﬀs (again). But according to Canada they walked awaywhen the U.S. introduced unfavorable terms at the last minute.Saudi Arabia getting help to develop non-military nuclear capabilities. But thatseemed to derail almost immediately, when there was confusion over terms thatsupposedly required the Saudis to agree to join the Abraham Accords. Again, thegoal is for the Saudis to join the Accords one day, and it is unclear if this was a partof the discussions initially.The Board of Peace (a misnomer if there ever was one, given some of the castof characters involved) announced a peace deal between Israel and Hamas.Which would be great if even one of the sides had agreed.Not sure why we are both pulling back on military exercises in South Koreaand reaching out to North Korea. Yes, there are reasons (South Korea importing alot from the Middle East and not helping in the war, etc.) but still seems odd.The original MOU with Iran. Within days, the $300 billion of economic reliefsounded like it needed to come from other countries, none of whom had agreed.The language about the Strait seemed pretty favorable to Iran, and diﬀerent thanwhat the President said (hence why we were quickly back to ghting over it). Iran isnotorious for changing terms and making any negotiation diﬃcult, which is why it issaid that while Iran has never won a war, it has never lost a negotiation. We know itwill likely take more time to get Iran to agree on a satisfactory deal, but the devil isalways in the details.The UK had the rst friendly trade deal. Who knows what has actually beendocumented, but it didnt stop the U.S. from adding some tariﬀs for sending troopsto Greenland while the U.S. talked about annexing Greenland.Bottom Linehttps://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 6 of 8Either the Fed helps Bessent on Treasuries, or this recent intervention will fall at(and probably do more harm than good, which is often the case when an intervention isattempted but doesnt succeed).My gut is there is more to come, but we really need to see something from Warsh andthe Fed at or before Jackson Hole.Whatever negotiating tactics worked well in Trump 1.0 dont seem to be aseﬀective during Trump 2.0. I could be wrong, and am playing chess in the wrongdimension, but Im concerned the U.S. is kicking the hornets nest (which probablyneeded to be kicked), but the outcome might not be as good for the U.S. economy (andthe stock market) as it could beOn Iran, it seems there is only so much we can do economically without confrontingChina, and that is a confrontation that is fraught with dangers to our economy (andanother reminder of why we need to smelt, process, and rene things here in theU.S. ASAP or with our close neighbors, but that seems to have taken another step inthe wrong direction).Or maybe Im just tired and cranky as the dog days of summer have taken a toll onmy psyche. And this report had nothing to do with Treatises, but it seemed to go well with Treatiesand Treasuries, and I thought it might attract Spiders attention as he teaches me a newword almost every time we see clients together16,604131WANT TO KNOW MORE?The Great Burrito Debate And The Uncomfortable Solution To Inflationhttps://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 7 of 8DISCRIMINATION NOTICEPRIVACY POLICYDISCLOSUREDISCLAIMERPRIVACY AND COOKIE SETTINGSADVERTISE WITH ZEROHEDGECOPYRIGHT 2009-2026 ZEROHEDGE.COM/ABC MEDIA, LTDThe Great Burrito Debate And The Uncomfortable Solution To InflationDid Canada Just Sign Its Own Economic Death Warrant?Warsh and Bessent Need to Regain the Policy High Groundhttps://www.zerohedge.com/markets/fed-owns-over-50-all-bonds-maturing-between-10-and-15-years-now8/23/26, 4:27 PMPage 8 of 8
